GENERAL AWARENESS | 3
sample for time-series analysis. Which country achieved the
General Awareness full gender parity in this year’s index?
(a) Norway (d) Denmark
(b) Iceland (e) Sweden
Q.1)
(c) Finland
India’s BSR system needs to be robust, timely,
comprehensive and open to change, stated Michael Patra,
Q.4)
deputy governor of Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The BSR
Recently, a South American country conferred its highest
Code is a seven-digit code that is provided to the registered
civilian honour to President Droupadi Murmu- The Grand
banks by the RBI. The first three digits in the code identify
Order of the Chain of Yellow Star, the first Indian to receive
the bank, while the following four digits identify the bank
this award. The country in question is a small country on
branch. This code helps banks to keep a clear record of
the northeastern coast of South America. It’s defined by vast
every online payment made towards tax. BSR system has
swaths of tropical rainforest, Dutch colonial architecture
metamorphosed into a sound and comprehensive reporting
and a melting-pot culture. It is a tropical country covered in
system, generating a wide array of useful statistics.
rainforests. Its extensive tree cover is vital to the country’s
Combined with bank branch statistics, it has supported
efforts to mitigate climate change and maintain carbon
the post-nationalisation expansion of the Indian banking
negativity. Identify it.
system. In October 2022, the BSR completed __ years of
its existence. RBI had organized an event to celebrate the
(a) Guyana (d) Chile
anniversary.
(b) Brazil (e) Peru
(c) Suriname
(a) 50 years (d) 30 years
(b) 10 years (e) 15 years
Q.5)
(c) 20 years
Towns of Export Excellence is a status provided to those
towns which produce and export goods worth a minimum
Q.2)
value in a specific sector. Sectors include handicraft,
As per the Annual Report of RBI (released in May 2023),
handloom, seafood, pharmaceutical, fisheries, apparels, coir,
the Reserve Bank successfully completed the combined gross
leather products etc. As per the Foreign Trade Policy, towns
market borrowings of the central and the state governments
that produce goods worth at least ____ can be recognized as
to the tune of Rs 21,79,392 crore during 2022-23, which was
towns of export excellence, based on their growth potential
19.2 per cent higher than the previous year. During 2022-
for exports. However, for Town of Export Excellence (TEE)
23, securities ranging from 2 to ____ years tenor (original
in Handloom, Handicraft, Agriculture and Fisheries sector,
maturity) were issued with the objective of catering to
the threshold limit is____.
the demand from various investors in different maturity
buckets. Floating Rate Bonds (FRBs) of 7-year and 13- year
(a) Rs 500 crore; Rs 100 crore
tenors (original maturity) were also reissued during the year.
(b) Rs 250 crore; Rs 50 crore
The share of FRBs in total issuances during 2022-23 was 2.5
(c) Rs 450 crore; Rs 150 crore
per cent as compared to 7.8 per cent in the previous year.
(d) Rs 900 crore; Rs 450 crore
(e) Rs 750 crores; Rs 150 crores
(a) 20 (d) 40
(b) 15 (e) 10
Q.6)
(c) 30
According to reports, a trilateral highway connecting
Kolkata to ___ will be built and available for use in four
Q.3)
years. Commerce ministers from numerous countries
The Global Gender Gap Index annually benchmarks the
explored this possibility at a recent meeting held by the
current state and evolution of gender parity across four
Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and the Ministry of
key dimensions (Economic Participation and Opportunity,
External Affairs (MEA). The highway has immense potential
Educational Attainment, Health and Survival, and Political
to promote tourism and cultural exchanges among the
Empowerment). It is the longest-standing index tracking
countries it connects. This road will facilitate the exploration
the progress of numerous countries’ efforts towards closing
of historical landmarks and cultural assets in the countries it
these gaps over time since its inception in 2006. This
connects. The trilateral highway project was first proposed
year, the 17th edition of the Global Gender Gap Index
and approved at a ministerial meeting in April 2002. The
benchmarks gender parity across 146 countries, providing a
2,800-kilometre-long highway aimed at boosting multilateral
basis for robust cross-country analysis. Further, examining
trade.
a subset of 102 countries that have been included in every
edition of the index since 2006 provides a large constant
(a) Hanoi (b) Bangkok
ANUJJINDAL.IN