Monthly review of accounts of Government of India upto August 2025 (FY 2025-26)

Posted On: 30 SEP 2025 4:40PM by PIB Delhi

The monthly accounts of the Government of India upto the month of August, 2025 has been consolidated and reports published. The highlights are given below: -

The Government of India has received ₹12,82,709 crore (36.7% of corresponding BE 2025-26 of Total Receipts) upto August, 2025 comprising ₹8,10,407 crore Tax Revenue (Net to Centre), ₹4,40,332 crore of Non-Tax Revenue and ₹31,970 crore of Non-Debt Capital Receipts. ₹5,30,148 crore has been transferred to State Governments as Devolution of Share of Taxes by Government of India this period which is ₹74,431 crore higher than the previous year.

Total Expenditure incurred by Government of India is ₹18,80,862 crore (37.1% of corresponding BE 2025-26), out of which ₹14,49,283 crore is on Revenue Account and ₹4,31,579 crore is on Capital Account. Out of the Total Revenue Expenditure, ₹5,28,668 crore is on account of Interest Payments and ₹1,50,377 crore is on account of Major Subsidies. 

Government’s Borrowing plan for the second half of FY 2025-26

Posted On: 26 SEP 2025 5:30PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, has finalized its borrowing programme for the second half (H2) of FY 2025-26.

Government of India plans to borrow ₹₹6.77 lakh crore in the second half of the fiscal year 2025-26 (H2: FY 2025-26) through dated securities, including ₹10,000 crore through issuance of Sovereign Green Bonds (SGrBs).

The Gross Market Borrowing of ₹6.77 lakh crore shall be completed through 22 weekly auctions till March 6, 2026. The market borrowing will be spread over 3, 5, 7, 10, 15, 30, 40 and 50 year securities. The share of borrowing (including SGrBs) under different maturities will be: 3-year (6.6%), 5-year (13.3%), 7-year (8.1%), 10-year (28.4%), 15-year (14.2%), 30-year (9.2%), 40-year (11.1%) and 50-year (9.2%).

The Government will continue to carry out switching/buyback of securities to smoothen the redemption profile.

The Government will continue to reserve the right to exercise greenshoe option to retain an additional subscription of up to ₹2,000 crore against each of the securities indicated in the auction notifications.

Weekly borrowing through issuance of Treasury Bills in the third quarter (Q3) of FY 2025-26 is expected to be ₹19,000 crore for 13 weeks with issuance of ₹7,000 crore under 91 DTBs, ₹6,000 crore under 182 DTBs and ₹6,000 crore under 364 DTBs, respectively.

To take care of temporary mismatches in Government payments and receipts, , the Reserve Bank of India has fixed the Ways and Mean Advances (WMA) limit for H2 of FY 2025-26 at ₹50,000 crore.

More details may be seen in the detailed Press Release available on the Websites of Finance Ministry and the Reserve Bank of India.

Government of India and ADB sign $125 million loan to upgrade urban services in Assam

Posted On: 22 SEP 2025 7:20PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) today signed a $125 million loan agreement with to enhance urban livability and bolster climate resilience in six district headquarters and Guwahati, in the State of Assam.

The signatories to the loan agreement for the Assam Urban Sector Development Project were Ms. Juhi Mukherjee, Joint Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance for the Government of India, and Ms. Mio Oka, Country Director, India Resident Mission, for ADB.

The project will benefit 360,000 residents of Assam by delivering continuous metered water supply and upgrading stormwater management systems. It also seeks to strengthen urban governance through institutional reforms and capacity building.

Key infrastructure investments include the construction of six water treatment plants with a combined capacity of 72 million litres per day and 800 km distribution pipelines in the district headquarters of Barpeta, Bongaigaon, Dhubri, Goalpara, Golaghat, and Nalbari. The project will also deploy a real-time monitoring system, aiming to maintain nonrevenue water below 20%.

In Guwahati, the project will enhance stormwater management in the Bahini Basin with flood diversion channels, upgraded drainage systems, and a nature-based retention pond to reduce flood discharge and improve groundwater recharge.

The project also includes the establishment of the Assam State Institute for Urban Development in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati. Additionally, it will roll out a GIS-based property tax database, digital water billing systems, and a volumetric water tariff structure across project towns to improve financial sustainability and service delivery.

A strong emphasis on supporting women and girls and social inclusion is embedded in the project. Activities include training women self-help groups in water operations, establishing internships for college-age women, and conducting school outreach programs to promote awareness of water, sanitation, and hygiene.

Auction for Sale (re-issue) of (i) ‘6.68% GS 2040’ and (ii) ‘6.90% GS 2065’

Posted On: 22 SEP 2025 6:06PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India (GoI) has announced the sale (re-issue) of (i) “6.68% Government Security 2040” for a notified amount of ₹16,000 crore (nominal) through price based auction using multiple price method and (ii) “6.90% Government Security 2065” for a notified amount of ₹16,000 crore (nominal) through price based auction using multiple price method. GoI will have the option to retain additional subscription up to ₹2,000 crore against each security mentioned above. The auctions will be conducted by the Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai Office, Fort, Mumbai on September 26, 2025 (Friday).

\Up to 5% of the notified amount of the sale of the securities will be allotted to eligible individuals and institutions as per the Scheme for Non-Competitive Bidding Facility in the Auction of Government Securities.

Both competitive and non-competitive bids for the auction should be submitted in electronic format on the Reserve Bank of India Core Banking Solution (E-Kuber system) on September 26, 2025. The non-competitive bids should be submitted between 10:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. and the competitive bids should be submitted between 10:30 a.m. and 11:30 a.m.

The result of the auctions will be announced on September 26, 2025 (Friday) and payment by successful bidders will be on September 29, 2025 (Monday).    

The Securities will be eligible for “When Issued” trading in accordance with the guidelines on ‘When Issued transactions in Central Government Securities’ issued by the Reserve Bank of India vide circular No. RBI/2018-19/25 dated July 24, 2018 as amended from time to time.

India’s Sovereign Rating Upgraded to BBB+ (Stable) by Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), Japan

Posted On: 19 SEP 2025 4:01PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India welcomes the decision by the Japanese credit rating agency, Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), to upgrade India’s long-term sovereign credit rating to ‘BBB+’ from ‘BBB’, while retaining the “Stable” Outlook for the Indian economy.

This is the third such upgrade by a sovereign credit rating agency this year, following S&P’s upgrade to ‘BBB’ (from BBB-) in August 2025 and Morningstar DBRS’ upgrade to ‘BBB’ (from BBB (low)) in May 2025, reaffirming India’s position as one of the most dynamic and resilient major economies in the world.

As per R&I’s India sovereign rating review published today (Link: news_release_cfp_20250919_23993_eng.pdf), the ratings upgrade is supported by India’s position as one of the world’s largest and fastest-growing economies, underpinned by its demographic dividend, robust domestic demand, and sound government policies. R&I in its report recognises the progress in fiscal consolidation by the Government, driven by buoyant tax revenues and rationalisation of subsidies, and manageable level of debt along with high growth.  It also highlights India’s strengthened external stability, reflected in modest current account deficit, stable surpluses in services and remittances, low external debt-to-GDP ratio, and sufficient forex cover.

The agency further stated that the risks associated with the financial system remain limited. “While the government has been increasing capital expenditures, it has managed to reduce the fiscal deficit thanks to the tax revenue increase backed by the strong domestic demand as well as the cut of subsidies”, agency noted in its statement. The recent increase in tariffs by the U.S. was acknowledged as a risk factor by the agency, however, it observed that India’s limited reliance on U.S. exports and its domestic demand-driven growth model will contain the impact.  Further it observed that while the GST rationalisation will result in revenue losses, the negative impact will likely be offset to some extent by the stimulation of private consumption.

The agency also praised the policies of the administration of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi aimed mainly at attracting foreign manufacturers to India, developing infrastructure, institutionalizing the legal framework to improve the business environment, reducing the reliance on energy imports and ensuring the economic security.

This is the third credit rating upgrade India has got this year from S&P, Morningstar DBRS and R&I and it reflects the increasing global recognition for India’s robust and resilient macroeconomic fundamentals and prudent fiscal management. It also underscores global confidence in India’s medium-term growth prospects amid prevailing global uncertainties. The Government of India remains committed to building on this momentum through policies that promote inclusive, high-quality growth alongside fiscal prudence and macroeconomic stability.

Swachhata Hi Seva (SHS) Campaign 2025 commences today, Organisations under DFS undertake Swachhata Pledge

Posted On: 17 SEP 2025 7:30PM by PIB Delhi

The Department of Financial Services (DFS), Ministry of Finance has launched Swachhata Hi Seva 2025 (SHS 2025), a nationwide cleanliness campaign scheduled from September 17 to October 2, 2025. This year's theme is "Swachhotsav", which blends the spirit of festive celebrations with the responsibility of cleanliness. The campaign is a key component of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Clean India Mission)

Various activities, covering all the 5 Pillars of campaign will be organised across the country by all organisations of DFS (PSBs, PSFIs, PSICs, Regulators, RRBs, DRTs etc). 105 organisations of DFS and more than 86,000 branches of financial institutions are expected to participate in the campaign.

To give wide impact to the Swachhata Hi Seva campaign, all branches have been requested to organize plantation drive and to set up outreach programmes for enrolment of Safai Mitras to government schemes. Special emphasis willl be given on enrolment of SafaiMitras under PMJDY, PMSBY and PMJJBY schemes.

Lead District Managers (LDMs), through State/UT Level Banking Committees, at all districts have been requested to identify and map black spots and to transform them in a timely manner during the campaign period. It has been also planned to organise cleanliness activity at 10 locations of each districts under the jurisdiction of LDMs, covering both rural and urban area.

 A nationwide Shramdaan Activity involving bankers, volunteers and common citizens is also to be organised at 8.00 A.M. on 25.09.2025.

Nationwide Financial Inclusion Saturation Campaign sees significant progress

Posted On: 16 SEP 2025 7:43PM by PIB Delhi

The Nationwide 3-months Financial Inclusion Saturation Campaign, launched on 1st July 2025, has recorded remarkable progress in its first 2.5 months. As part of the campaign, more than 2.3 lakh camps have been organized across districts in the country to expand outreach of financial services. This has resulted in the opening of over 61 lakh new Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) accounts and more than 2.6 crore fresh enrollments under the three Jan Suraksha social security schemes, reflecting a strong momentum towards universal financial inclusion. Further awareness programs are conducted regarding digital frauds, access to unclaimed deposits and Grievance redressal mechanisms.

The Department of Financial Services launched 3 months Nationwide Financial Inclusion Saturation Campaign from 1st July, 2025 to 30th September, 2025, with a view to include the last person in the country under Financial Inclusion schemes. The campaign has achieved great success as reflected in the substantial progress made in Financial Inclusion parameters.

The campaign’s primary objective is to extend the reach of flagship schemes- Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), and Atal Pension Yojana (APY) to all eligible individuals across the country. To achieve this objective, camps are being conducted in all the 2.70 lakh GPs and ULBs These camps are also facilitating Re-KYC, nomination updates for bank accounts and providing awareness on unclaimed deposits & digital frauds.

Between 1st July and 14th September, 2025, the campaign has facilitated meaningful community engagement. Through strategic outreach and publicity of upcoming camps, citizens are being actively encouraged to visit camps and avail the benefit of the schemes.

DRI continues crackdown on drug trafficking syndicates under “Operation Weed Out”;

Posted On: 16 SEP 2025 4:17PM by PIB Delhi

As part of ongoing pan-India “Operation Weed Out”, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has seized 39.2 kg of hydroponic weed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, Mumbai on 13th-14th September 2025. Three persons have been arrested in a coordinated operation, under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.

Acting on specific intelligence, DRI officers intercepted two Indian nationals arriving from Bangkok. Thorough examination of their checked-in baggage led to the recovery of 39 packets weighing 39.2 kg of hydroponic cannabis. A swift follow-up action resulted in the arrest of the intended recipient.

In another case, based on specific intelligence, the officers of DRI, seized 7.8 kg (gross weight) of hydroponic weed being smuggled from Bangkok, Thailand, to Mumbai and arrested two passengers under the relevant provisions of the NDPS Act, 1985.

DRI has separately made seizures of 61.67 kg of Hydroponic Weed being smuggled from Bangkok, Thailand, into India at different parts of India, including Jaipur, Lucknow, and Kolkata during period of 26th August to 12th September 2025.

It may be recalled that earlier in Pan-India operation on 20th & 21st August 2025 DRI had seized a total of 72.024 kg of hydroponic weed worth around Rs. 72 crore along with illegal proceeds of Rs. 1.02 crore and had arrested 5 persons, including financiers and a mastermind under the provisions of NDPS Act, 1985.

Over the past year, there has been a sharp rise in attempts to smuggle hydroponic weed from Thailand into India through various airports. DRI continues to act firmly against such drug syndicates that have been smuggling hydroponic weed in the country, reinforcing the Government of India’s vision of a Nasha Mukt Bharat.

DFS organises PSB Manthan 2025, a two-day programme chaired by the Secretary, DFS

Posted On: 13 SEP 2025 5:02PM by PIB Delhi

The Department of Financial Services (DFS), Ministry of Finance, organised PSB Manthan 2025, a two-day programme that concluded today at Gurugram, Haryana. The event was chaired by the Secretary, DFS and brought together senior leadership of Public Sector Banks along with regulators, industry experts, academicians, technologists, and banking practitioners. Eminent speakers included, inter-alia Shri Swaminathan J., Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of India; Dr. V. Anantha Nageswaran, Chief Economic Adviser to the Government of India; Shri M. Damodaran, Former Chairman, SEBI; Shri Debasish Panda, Former Chairman, IRDAI; former Deputy Governors of RBI—Shri R Gandhi, Shri N. S. Vishwanathan, and Shri M.K. Jain; and former Chairmen of SBI Shri Rajnish Kumar and Dinesh Kumar Khara, along with several other distinguished leaders from the financial sector, industry, academia, and technology.

In the opening remarks, the Secretary, Financial Services, underlined that Public Sector Banks have moved beyond the phase of survival and stability and are now positioned to play a larger role as champions of growth, innovation, and leadership in the journey towards Viksit Bharat 2047. The Secretary also highlighted the need for PSBs to aspire to global competitiveness, strengthen governance and operational resilience, and expand their role as sectoral champions across both traditional and emerging industries.

The programme featured seven panel discussions, three expert sessions, a fireside chat, and open house sessions, covering themes such as customer experience, governance, purposeful innovation, credit growth, risk management, workforce readiness, technology modernisation, and national priorities. Deliberations focused on reimagining customer journeys in a digital era, embedding governance and operational excellence, fostering purposeful innovation, ensuring sustainable credit growth, strengthening risk management frameworks, and developing an inclusive and future-ready workforce. The discussions also underlined the need for process simplification, timely redressal of customer dissatisfaction, and delivery of seamless services. Suggestions were made for PSBs to adopt next-generation technologies, build common infrastructure or shared utilities, and design hyper-personalised products tailored to diverse customer needs.

The discussions stressed the importance of modernising PSB technology by moving beyond legacy systems to agile and interoperable platforms capable of delivering seamless digital services, enhancing cyber resilience, and integrating effectively with India’s digital public infrastructure. It was further suggested that Public Sector Banks put in place robust governance frameworks for Artificial Intelligence (AI), aimed at strengthening model risk management, nurturing responsible AI adoption, and instituting appropriate safeguards against emerging risks. The deliberations also underscored the importance of engaging with technology partners who ensure openness and interoperability, thereby avoiding vendor lock-in and enabling long-term flexibility and innovation.

Speakers highlighted the importance of collaboration with fintechs, academia, global institutions, and entrepreneurs to enhance the capabilities of PSBs and accelerate innovation. They also reaffirmed that PSBs are not only central to financial inclusion but also to national priorities. While their traditional strengths in agriculture, MSMEs, housing, and infrastructure must be deepened further, PSBs must also emerge as key enablers of sunrise sectors such as renewable energy, electric mobility, green hydrogen, semiconductors, shipbuilding, and digital industries. It was further emphasised that PSBs should aspire to evolve into globally competitive banks, with the scale, presence, and capabilities to support Indian enterprises overseas and stand alongside leading financial institutions worldwide.

The deliberations also underlined the importance of customer centricity, technology-enabled process optimisation, and continuous HR training to empower employees for a rapidly changing banking environment. It was emphasised that technology adoption must move beyond digitising existing processes towards re-imagining service delivery, with the objectives of enhancing efficiency, fostering inclusiveness, and deepening customer trust.

During open house sessions on key themes, leaders of PSBs shared their experiences, offered forward-looking suggestions, and raised future concerns around governance, technology adoption, and customer trust. These interactive sessions helped in shaping actionable pathways for the banking sector.

An important outcome of PSB Manthan 2025 was a shared sense of direction that emerged over the two days of deliberations. The discussions set near-term priorities around governance, customer service, technology, and credit delivery, while also outlining a long-term pathway for Public Sector Banks to align with sustainable growth and evolve into globally competitive institutions to realise the vision of Viksit Bharat 2047.

PSB Manthan 2025 reaffirmed that the future of Indian banking will be shaped by bold ambitions and transformative purpose, with Public Sector Banks playing a central role in advancing national priorities and aspiring to emerge as institutions of global standing.

Secretary, DFS chairs meeting to discuss issues related to financing in Infrastructure Sector

Posted On: 11 SEP 2025 5:17PM by PIB Delhi

Shri M. Nagaraju, Secretary, Department of Financial Services (DFS), chaired a meeting today to discuss issues related to financing in Infrastructure Sector. The meeting was attended by senior management of major Public Sector Banks, Private Sector Banks, Development Financial Institutions and NBFC-IFCs.

Some of the key issues discussed were gap in availability of financing, barriers to issue of Municipal bonds, enhancing capacity building & training and better availability of data on defaults and recoveries. Various measures/recommendations were put forward on issues related to financing in Infrastructure Sector.

It was agreed that National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development will be consulting all concerned stakeholders and submit a report to the Department of Financial Services within 15 days.

Government of India and ADB sign $126.4 million loan agreement to promote sustainable tourism in Uttarakhand

Posted On: 11 SEP 2025 1:08PM by PIB Delhi

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Government of India yesterday signed a $126.42 million loan agreement to promote rural development through sustainable and climate-resilient tourism in the Tehri Lake region of Uttarakhand.

The signatories to the Sustainable, Inclusive, and Climate-Resilient Tourism Development at Tehri Lake Area Project (https://www.adb.org/projects/57213-001/main) were Ms. Juhi Mukherjee, Joint Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance for the Government of India, and Mr. Kai Wei Yeo, Officer-in-Charge, India Resident Mission, for ADB.

“The ADB loan supports the Government of Uttarakhand’s policy to position the state as a diversified, all-weather tourism destination, with Tehri Lake identified as a priority area for development,” said Ms. Mukherjee after signing the loan agreement.

“The project showcases a model for sustainable tourism anchored around a hydropower lake by adopting a multisector approach to generate jobs, diversify income, and build climate resilience,” said Mr. Yeo.

The project targets the Tehri Garhwal District, one of Uttarakhand’s most climate-vulnerable and economically disadvantaged regions. It aims to benefit over 87,000 residents and 2.7 million annual visitors through improved tourism planning, upgraded infrastructure, enhanced sanitation and waste management, and disaster preparedness.

Key interventions include institutional strengthening, climate-resilient infrastructure, nature-based solutions to mitigate landslide and flood risks, and inclusive tourism services led by women, youth, and the private sector.

Notable features include a livelihood matching grant program to support tourism led by women, youth, and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, universal access design including for persons with disability, and a women-led disaster risk management initiative in pilot villages.

Government of India and Government of the State of Israel sign Bilateral Investment Agreement (BIA), in New Delhi, today

Posted On: 08 SEP 2025 6:14PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the State of Israel signed a Bilateral Investment Agreement (Agreement), in New Delhi, today. The Agreement was signed by Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, and H.E. Mr. Bezalel Smotrich, Finance Minister of the State of Israel.

The BIA was signed in the presence of the Israeli delegation comprising of senior officers from the Israel Government and Senior Officers from the Government of India.

The Agreement marks historic milestone in the relation of two countries. The agreement is expected to boost investments, provide greater certainty and protection for investors, facilitating the growth of trade and mutual investments by ensuring a minimum standard of treatment, and an independent dispute resolution mechanism through arbitration. The Agreement also includes provisions to safeguard investments against expropriation, ensure transparency, and enable smooth transfers and compensation for losses. At the same time, it carefully balances investor protection with the State’s regulatory rights, preserving sufficient policy space for sovereign governance.

The signing of the Agreement reflects both nations shared commitment towards enhancing economic cooperation and creating a more robust and resilient investment environment. The Agreement is expected to pave the way for increased bilateral investments between the two countries, which presently stands at total of USD 800 million, thereby benefiting businesses and economies in both countries. In this regard, Finance Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman mentioned that both sides should have more business interaction to explore opportunities of investments, to gain benefit from the Agreement.

She further informed about the series of reforms undertaken by India over last more than 10 years, which has enabled India to be the fastest growing economy of the world and has created an investment friendly environment in the country.

Finance Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman expressed her condolences over the loss of innocent lives in terrorist attack in Israel today. She also mentioned about the shared value of civilizational ethos of two countries which contributed to the global peace. Both Ministers acknowledged the threat of terrorism faced by both the countries and expressed solidarity with each other.

The Israeli Finance Minister spoke about the strong common background of the two countries achieving high economic growth despite security challenges. The Finance Minister of State of Israel emphasised the need for greater collaboration between two nations in the field of cybersecurity, defense, innovation and high-technology sectors.

Both the Ministers emphasised their commitment to advancing economic cooperation in the fields of fintech innovation, infrastructure development, financial regulation, and digital payment connectivity. They agreed to enhance economic and financial cooperation between the two countries and to promote and protect investments on a reciprocal basis.

The Finance Minister of Israel also extended an invitation to the Union Finance Minister to visit Israel.

Recommendations of the 56th Meeting of the GST Council held at New Delhi, today

Posted On: 03 SEP 2025 10:39PM by PIB Delhi

Next-generation GST reforms, as announced by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi from the ramparts of Red Fort on 15th August 2025, represent a strategic, principled, and citizen-centric evolution of a landmark tax framework, which will enhance the quality of life of every last citizen

GST Council approves reforms with a multi-sectoral and multi-thematic focus on improving the lives of all citizens and ensuring ease of doing business for all, including small traders and businessmen

GST Council approves rate rationalisation with a focus on Common-man, Labour-intensive Industries, Farmers and Agriculture, Health, Key Drivers of the economy

Exemption of GST on all individual life insurance policies whether term life, ULIP or endowment policies and reinsurance thereof to make insurance affordable for the common man and increase the insurance coverage in the country.

Exemption of GST on all individual health insurance policies (including family floater policies and policies for senior citizens) and reinsurance thereof to make insurance affordable for the common man and increase the insurance coverage in the country

Rationalisation of the current 4-tiered tax rate structure into a citizen-friendly ‘Simple Tax’ - a 2 rate structure with a Standard Rate of 18% and a Merit Rate of 5%; a special de-merit rate of 40% for a select few goods and services

Reduction of GST from 18% OR 12% to 5% on a host of common man items such as, hair oil, toilet soap bars, shampoos, toothbrushes, toothpaste, Bicycles, Tableware, kitchenware, other household articles, et al

Reduction of GST from 5% to NIL on Ultra-High Temperature (UHT) milk, Prepackaged and labelled chena or paneer; All the Indian Breads will see NIL rates (Chapati or roti, paratha, parotta, etc)

Reduction of GST from 12% OR 18% to 5% on almost all of the food items such as packaged namkeens, Bhujia, Sauces, Pasta, Instant Noodles, Chocolates, Coffee, Preserved Meat, Cornflakes, Butter, Ghee, etc.   

Reduction of GST from 28% to 18% on Air-conditioning machines, TVs~32 inch (all TVs now at 18%), Dishwashing machines, Small cars, Motorcycles equal to or less than 350 CC

Reduction of GST from 12% to 5% on agricultural goods, such as tractors, agricultural, horticultural or forestry machinery for soil preparation or cultivation, harvesting or threshing machinery, including straw or fodder balers, grass or hay mowers, composting machines etc

Reduction of GST from 12% to 5% on labour intensive goods such as Handicrafts, Marble and travertine blocks, granite blocks, and Intermediate leather goods

Reduction of GST from 28% to 18% on Cement

Reduction of GST from 12% to NIL on 33 lifesaving drugs and medicines and from 5% to NIL on 3 lifesaving drugs & medicines used for treatment of cancer, rare diseases and other severe chronic diseases.

Reduction of GST on all other drugs and medicines from 12% to 5%.

Reduction of GST from 18% to 5% on various medical apparatus and devices used for medical, surgical, dental or veterinary usage or for physical or chemical analysis

Reduction of GST from 12% to 5% on various medical equipment and supplies devices such as wadding gauze, bandages, diagnostic kits and reagents, blood glucose monitoring system (Glucometer) medical devices, etc

Reduction of GST from 28% to 18% on Small Cars and Motorcycles equal to or below 350cc

Reduction of GST from 28% to 18% on buses, trucks, ambulances etc

Uniform rate of 18% on all auto parts irrespective of their HS code; Three-Wheelers from 28% to 18%

Correction of long-pending inverted duty structure for the manmade textile sector by reducing GST rate on manmade fibre from 18% to 5% and manmade yarn from 12% to 5%

Correction of inverted duty structure in fertilizer sector by reducing GST from 18% to 5% on Sulphuric acid, Nitric acid and Ammonia 

Reduction of GST from 12% to 5% on renewable energy devices and parts for their manufacture

Reduction of GST from 12% to 5% on “Hotel Accommodation” services having value less than or equal to Rs. 7,500 per unit per day or equivalent

Reduction of GST from 18% to 5% on beauty and physical well-being services used by common man including services of gyms, salons, barbers, yoga centres, etc

GST Council recommends operationalisation of Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal (GSTAT) for accepting appeals before end of September and to commence hearing before end of December 2025

GST Council recommends GST rates on services will be implemented with effect from 22nd September 2025

Celebrating four years of launch of the Account Aggregator Ecosystem - India’s Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI)

Posted On: 02 SEP 2025 9:14AM by PIB Delhi

112 Financial Institutions are live both as Financial Information Providers (FIP) and Financial Information Users (FIU), while 56 are live solely as FIP, and 410 as FIU. Over 2.2 billion financial accounts are now enabled for secure, consent-based data-sharing through the AA framework, with 112.34 million users having already linked their accounts.

DGGI Belagavi Zonal Unit uncovers fraud involving issuance of fake GST invoices of around Rs. 145 crore and tax evasion of Rs. 43 crore; one arrested

Posted On: 30 AUG 2025 7:39PM by PIB Delhi

The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Belagavi Zonal Unit has registered a case and uncovered a GST fraud involving issuance of fake invoices valued at approximately Rs 145 crore, resulting in alleged tax evasion of about Rs 43 crore. One individual has been arrested in connection with the case.

Preliminary findings indicate that a group of people created fake GST registrations using forged documents and availed and passed on fraudulently availed ITC. During the search of the accused’s premises, officers recovered several documents/ evidences, including a mobile phone, forged documents, fictitious Aadhaar cards and photographs of signboards of non-functional units. The investigation further indicates the use of shell entities with no genuine business operations to generate fake invoices and e-way bills.

The accused was arrested under Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2017 in Bengaluru and produced before the Special Court for Economic Offences, which granted transit remand for his transfer to Belagavi. He was subsequently produced before the Judicial Magistrate, Belagavi, and has been remanded to judicial custody for seven days.

Further investigation is in progress.

Monthly review of accounts of Government of India upto July 2025 (FY 2025-26)

Posted On: 29 AUG 2025 4:39PM by PIB Delhi

The monthly accounts of the Government of India upto the month of July, 2025 has been consolidated and reports published. The highlights are given below: -

The Government of India has received ₹10,95,209 crore (31.3% of corresponding BE 2025-26 of Total Receipts) upto July, 2025 comprising ₹6,61,812 crore Tax Revenue (Net to Centre), ₹4,03,608 crore of Non-Tax Revenue and ₹29,789 crore of Non-Debt Capital Receipts. ₹4,28,544 crore has been transferred to State Governments as Devolution of Share of Taxes by Government of India this period which is ₹61,914 crore higher than the previous year.

Total Expenditure incurred by Government of India is ₹15,63,625 crore (30.9% of corresponding BE 2025-26), out of which ₹12,16,699 crore is 

on Revenue Account and ₹3,46,926 crore is on Capital Account. Out of the Total Revenue Expenditure, ₹4,46,690 crore is on account of Interest Payments and ₹1,13,592 crore is on account of Major Subsidies. 

Central Government extends import duty exemption on cotton till 31st December 2025

Posted On: 28 AUG 2025 8:48AM by PIB Delhi

To augment availability of cotton for the Indian textile sector, the Central Government had temporarily exempted the import duty on cotton from 19th August 2025 till 30th September, 2025.  In order to support  exporters further, the Central Government has decided to extend the import duty exemption  on cotton (HS 5201) from 30th September 2025 till 31st December 2025.

Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials seizes nearly 9 kg cocaine, hashish and MDMA worth around Rs. 40 crore in Delhi under Operation “Rainbow”

Posted On: 26 AUG 2025 8:43PM by PIB Delhi

In a major strike against drug trafficking and distribution syndicates, the officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) have seized a significant quantity of narcotic substances under Operation codenamed “Rainbow”.

A specific intelligence on the modus of smuggling of narcotics viz cocaine, in small quantities, concealed in soft toys and smuggled using domestic courier networks, was further developed by the officers of DRI, New Delhi. The intelligence resulted in co-ordinated search operations at multiple premises located in Mehrauli, New Delhi. The operation led to the recovery of 3095.5 grams of Cocaine, 4421 grams of Hashish, 1305.5 grams of MDMA in tablets form and 46 grams of Amphetamine.

The seized drugs amounting to nearly 9 kg of narcotic drugs are valued at approximately Rs. 40 Crore in the international illicit market. A significant quantity of the seized drugs were found in the form of tablets/small pouches ready for distribution.

In a multi-city operation, DRI officials seize 119.4 kg of Alprazolam worth Rs. 23.88 crore at a clandestine manufacturing facility in Atchuthapuram, Anakapalli District, Andhra Pradesh; eight arrested

Posted On: 18 AUG 2025 9:41PM by PIB Delhi

The officers of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence from Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Kakinada executed a swift and well-coordinated operation resulting in seizure of 119.4 kg Alprazolam in lumpy form, valued at approximately Rs. 23.88 crore in the illicit market, along with 87.8 kg in-process material. The DRI officials also apprehended eight persons involved in illegal manufacturing and distribution of Alprazolam, including the master-mind, chemists, financiers and the buyers at the same place.

After developing a specific intelligence that a few persons were clandestinely manufacturing 'Alprazolam' — a psychotropic substance under the NDPS Act, 1985 — at a facility in Atchuthapuram, Anakapalli District, Andhra Pradesh, the DRI officials meticulously planned the operation to arrest the entire set of persons involved in manufacturing and distribution of Alprazolam.

DRI busts illicit drug manufacturing factory in Bhopal; seizes 61.2 kg Mephedrone worth ₹92 crore; seven held

Posted On: 18 AUG 2025 5:31PM by PIB Delhi

Acting on a specific intelligence, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) successfully busted a clandestine Mephedrone manufacturing facility in Bhopal, in a meticulously coordinated Op, code-named “Operation Crystal Break”. The Surat and Mumbai police also supported DRI during this operation.

DRI carried out raids spanning multiple locations across Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, and apprehended seven key operatives of the syndicate.

On 16.08.2025, a search of the illegal manufacturing facility at Gram-Jagdishpur (Islamnagar), Huzur-Tehsil, District-Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, led to the recovery and seizure of 61.20 kg of Mephedrone (in liquid form) valued at ₹92 crore in the illicit market. In addition, 541.53 kg of raw materials, including Methylene Dichloride, Acetone, Monomethylamine (MMA), Hydrochloric Acid (HCL), and 2-Bromo, along with a complete set of processing equipment, were seized.

The factory, located in a secluded premises, deliberately covered from all sides to avoid detection, was tactfully raided by DRI officers. Two individuals, including the chemist responsible for manufacturing Mephedrone, were apprehended while they were engaged in the illegal production process.

In swift follow-up operations, a key member of the drug cartel was apprehended at Basti, Uttar Pradesh, who was entrusted with overseeing supply of raw materials from Bhiwandi (Mumbai) to Bhopal. Two suppliers, who have illegally provided the chemicals/raw materials were also apprehended at Mumbai, along with the person responsible for the transportation of chemicals/raw materials from Mumbai to Bhopal.

Preliminary investigations also revealed that funds were being transferred from Surat and Mumbai to Bhopal via hawala channels. One close associate of the cartel, responsible for funds transfer, was also apprehended in Surat.

All seven arrested persons have admitted to their respective roles in the clandestine manufacturing of Mephedrone on the directions of an overseas operator and  kingpin of Mephedrone network in India.

S&P upgrades India to BBB with a Stable Outlook, highlighting Economic Resilience and Sustained Fiscal Consolidation

Posted On: 14 AUG 2025 6:37PM by PIB Delhi

The Ministry of Finance welcomes the decision by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) Global Ratings to upgrade India’s long-term sovereign credit rating to ‘BBB’ from ‘BBB-’ and its short-term rating to ‘A-2’ from ‘A-3’, with a Stable Outlook. The rating upgrade is a significant affirmation of India’s economic trajectory and prudent fiscal management. This marks the country’s first sovereign upgrade by S&P in 18 years, the previous one being in 2007 when India was elevated to investment grade at BBB-. In May 2024, the agency revised its outlook on India from ‘Stable’ to ‘Positive’.

As per S&P’s India sovereign rating review published today, the upgrade reflects a combination of key factors, including India’s buoyant and dynamic economic growth, the government’s sustained commitment to fiscal consolidation, improved quality of public spending, particularly on capex and infrastructure, and strong corporate, financial, and external balance sheets. Credible inflation management and increasing policy predictability have also played a central role.

S&P in its report details the key strengths of the Indian economy, which have enabled India to stand out as one of the fastest-growing major economies globally, with real GDP growth averaging 8.8 per cent from FY22 to FY24, the highest in the Asia-Pacific region. Monetary policy reforms, particularly the adoption of an inflation-targeting regime, have anchored inflation expectations more effectively, the agency stated. S&P has also recognised that despite global headwinds and price shocks, India has demonstrated resilience by maintaining overall price stability. Monetary improvements, combined with the ongoing development of deep domestic capital markets, have created a more stable and supportive environment for the overall economic scenario. The report further observes that India’s external and financial positions remain strong and the democratic institutions continue to ensure policy continuity and long-term economic stability.

Looking ahead, S&P projects GDP growth of 6.5 per cent in FY26 and a continued momentum over the next three years. The agency suggested that a narrowing fiscal deficit and continued public investment could support further positive rating actions. The report also noted that the impact of recently imposed U.S. tariffs is expected to be limited, owing to India’s large and resilient domestic consumption base.

Recently, another rating agency, Morning Star DBRS had also upgraded India to “BBB” status.

Comprehensive reforms taken up to instill credit discipline in PSBs

Posted On: 11 AUG 2025 4:23PM by PIB Delhi

The Government has taken various measures over the last few years to address the issues related to credit discipline, responsible lending, improved governance, adoption of technology, and proper regulation of Co-operative banks have been taken by the Government / Reserve Bank of India (RBI.)

These include, inter alia, the following:

Credit discipline has been instilled through—

enactment of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC);

setting up of the Central Repository of Information on Large Credits (CRILC) by RBI to monitor corporate loans and systematic checking of high-value accounts for wilful default and fraud.

Recognition and resolution of stressed Assets - To protect financial institutions in case of default/delay in payment by large borrowers, multiple steps have been taken viz.:

putting in place a framework for early recognition and time-bound resolution of stress.

automated Early Warning Systems to detect and reduce slippage of accounts into NPAs using third-party data and workflow for time-bound remedial actions.

strengthening Market based mechanisms to better manage the credit risk on the balance sheets through a comprehensive framework for transfer of stressed assets to eligible transferees.

National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) has been set up to consolidate and takeover stressed debt, fragmented across various lenders and thereafter manage and dispose it off to buyers for better realisation.

Governance Reforms in PSBs have been carried out through reforms like arms length selection of top management through Financial Services Institutions Bureau, introduction of Non-Executive chairmen in Nationalised Banks, widening talent pool and instituting performance-based extension for Managing Directors.

Enhanced Access & Service Excellence (EASE) reforms have enabled objective and benchmarked progress on all key areas in PSBs such as governance, prudential lending, risk management, technology- and data-driven banking, and outcome-centric HR.

Amalgamation of PSBs has led to economies of scale, increase financial capacity, technology adoption and overall efficiency enhancement.

Massive Technology adoption in banking has been instrumental in expanding financial inclusion, improving efficiency, and enabling real-time service delivery. Digital payment transactions have grown phenomenally as a result of various initiatives viz., Jan-Dhan–Aadhaar–Mobile (JAM) linkage, interoperable Bank Mitras, Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and Direct Benefit Transfers (DBTs).

The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2020 was brought in to enhance the governance, financial stability, and regulatory oversight of co-operative banks, which serve millions of citizens, particularly in rural and semi-urban areas.

The Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 2025 has been notified to enhance governance standards, strengthen protection for depositors and investors, improve audit quality in PSBs, shift statutory reporting by banks to the RBI and streamline nomination processes for customer convenience.

The measures implemented to improve credit flow to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and achievements are as under:

Mutual Credit Guarantee Scheme for MSMEs (MCGS-MSME)- It is a government-backed initiative designed to help MSMEs access loans to grow their businesses. This scheme offers credit guarantee, making it easier for MSMEs to obtain loans, especially for purchasing essential equipment and machinery. The Scheme provides credit guarantee cover to lenders (Scheduled Commercial Banks, All India Financial Institutions, NBFCs) for their term loans up to Rs. 100 crore to MSMEs for their projects involving purchase of equipment/machinery. The Scheme has been launched recently and is valid till issue of guarantees on loans cumulating to Rs. 7 lakh crore or 4 years from the date of issue of guidelines (i.e. 27.1.2025), whichever is earlier.

Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) - ECLGS provided 100% guarantee cover to Member lending Institutions (MLIs) in respect to the credit facility extended by them to eligible borrowers, including MSMEs and business enterprises for helping them meet their operational liabilities and restarting their businesses. The Scheme was valid till 31.3.2023 and provided liquidity support of Rs. 3.68 lakh crore to 1.19 crore businesses, of which loans amounting to Rs. 2.42 lakh crore have been sanctioned to 1.13 crore MSMEs under ECLGS.

Subsequent to Union Budget 2024-25 announcement, the Union Finance Minister had launched New Credit Assessment Model for MSMEs on 06.03.2025. The model leverages the digitally fetched and verifiable data and devises automated journeys for MSME loan appraisal using objective decisioning for all loan applications and model-based limit assessment for both Existing to Bank (ETB) as well as New to Bank (NTB) MSME borrowers.

Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE), under the administrative purview of Ministry of MSME, provides guarantee cover up to 85%, for loans amounting to Rs. 10 crore or below, extended by eligible Member Lending Institution (MLIs) to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs). The annual guarantee fee has been reduced which ranges from 0.37% to 1.20%. As on 31.07.2025, CGTMSE has approved 1.22 crore number of cumulative guarantees worth Rs. 10.50 lakh crore.

The total volume of digital payment transactions in the country has increased from 2,071 crore in FY 2017-18 to 22,831 crore in FY 2024-25, growing at a CAGR of 41%. During the same period, the value of transactions has grown from Rs. 1,962 lakh crore to Rs. 3,509 lakh crore.

Further, the total monthly volume of digital payment has increased from 1,739 crore in June 2024 to 2,099 crore in June 2025. During the same period the value of transactions has increased from Rs. 244 lakh crore in June 2024 to Rs. 264 lakh crore in June 2025.

UPI transactions, in particular, have grown from 92 crore in FY 2017-18 to 18,587 crore in FY 2024-25, with a CAGR of 114%. During the same period, the value of transactions has grown from Rs. 1.10 lakh crore to Rs. 261 lakh crore.

In July 2025, UPI reached another milestone recording over 1,946.79 crore transactions in a single month for the first time.

Several Measures taken by the government to strengthen Financial Inclusion; Over 55.90 Crore Jan Dhan Accounts Opened since 2014

Posted On: 04 AUG 2025 6:17PM by PIB Delhi

The Government has taken many initiatives to deepen financial inclusion and ensure that access to basic banking services leads to meaningful participation in the formal financial system, including access to credit. The launch of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) in August 2014 marked a significant step in banking the unbanked by facilitating the opening of basic savings bank deposit accounts, with associated features such as RuPay debit cards and an in-built overdraft facility. As on date, over 55.90 crore accounts have been opened under PMJDY.

The Government has, inter-alia, undertaken several measures to ensure that credit inclusion complements deposit inclusion, with a strong focus on funding the unfunded:

The Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY) was launched and provides collateral-free credit of up to ₹20 lakh to micro and small enterprises, thereby enabling self-employment and income generation. Since its inception, 53.85 crore loans amounting to over ₹35.13 lakh crore have been sanctioned under the scheme.

Dedicated schemes such as Stand-Up India (SUPI), PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi), PM Vishwakarma, and the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) have been implemented to expand credit access for SC/ST and women entrepreneurs, street vendors, artisans, and other micro-enterprises.

 Credit Guarantee Mechanisms: Includes the Credit Guarantee Fund for Micro Units (CGFMU) and the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE), which reduce credit risk for lenders and incentivizes formal lending to underserved segments.

To strengthen credit assessment frameworks for individuals lacking conventional credit history, the Government is leveraging technology and alternative data sources:

A Grameen Credit Score has been announced to support credit appraisal of Self-Help Group (SHG) borrowers and rural populations, including farmers and marginalized communities. This initiative is expected to enhance the quality and objectivity of credit decisions and facilitate improved access to formal credit in rural areas.

The MSME New Digital Credit Assessment Framework by Public Sector Banks makes use of integrated data from Income Tax returns, GST filings, and utility payments to enable faster and more precise credit evaluation.

The Jan Samarth Portal, a unified digital platform, has been launched to connect credit seekers with eligible Government schemes, thereby enhancing transparency, reducing processing time, and improving outreach.

Further, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) mandates Priority Sector Lending (PSL) targets to ensure that credit flows to sectors such as agriculture, micro and small enterprises, weaker sections, and other underserved areas of the economy. Through these concerted efforts, the Government aims to ensure that financial inclusion evolves from mere access to bank accounts to encompass equitable access to timely and affordable credit, thereby promoting inclusive growth.

CGST Delhi South Commissionerate busts a racket that fraudulently availed Input Tax Credit (ITC) worth ₹47.12 crore in iron & steel sector; one arrested

Posted On: 04 AUG 2025 6:17PM by PIB Delhi

The Anti-Evasion Branch of CGST Delhi South Commissionerate has unearthed a large-scale fraudulently availed Input Tax Credit (ITC) racket involving a Naraina-based taxpayer engaged in trading of iron and steel items. The case involves fraudulent availment and passing on of ITC totaling ₹47.12 crore, based on bogus invoices against a taxable value of approximately ₹261 crore, without any actual supply of goods.

Acting on specific intelligence developed by the Anti-Evasion wing, an investigation was initiated into a suspicious supply chain. The inquiry revealed that the firm had fraudulently availed and passed on ITC without any actual movement of goods. Further investigation established that the firm had availed ITC from cancelled and suspended GSTINs, in gross violation of the provisions of the CGST Act 2017.

The firm was found to be non-functional at its declared place of business during a search conducted under Section 67(2) of the CGST Act, 2017. The proprietor was arrested on 01.08.2025 under the provisions of Section 69 read with Sections 132(1)(b) and 132(1)(c) of the CGST Act 2017.

This case forms part of the broader initiative undertaken by the CGST Delhi South Commissionerate to dismantle fake ITC networks that lead to significant revenue leakage and undermine fair market practices. The department is leveraging data analytics and supply chain mapping tools to proactively identify and disrupt such fraudulent activities.

Monthly review of accounts of Government of India upto June 2025 (FY 2025-26)

Posted On: 31 JUL 2025 6:24PM by PIB Delhi

The Monthly accounts of the Government of India upto the month of June, 2025 has been consolidated and reports published. The highlights are given below: -

The Government of India has received ₹9,41,395 crore (26.9% of corresponding BE 2025-26 of Total Receipts) upto June, 2025 comprising ₹5,40,316 crore Tax Revenue (Net to Centre), ₹3,73,061 crore of Non-Tax Revenue and ₹28,018 crore of Non-Debt Capital Receipts. ₹3,26,941 crore has been transferred to State Governments as Devolution of Share of Taxes by Government of India this period which is ₹47,439 crore higher than the previous year.

Total Expenditure incurred by Government of India is ₹12,22,127 crore (24.1% of corresponding BE 2025-26), out of which ₹9,46,995 crore is on Revenue Account and ₹2,75,132 crore is on Capital Account. Out of the Total Revenue Expenditure, ₹3,86,037 crore is on account of Interest Payments and ₹83,554 crore is on account of Major Subsidies. 

Key Provisions of the Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 2025 to come into effect from 1st August 2025

Posted On: 30 JUL 2025 7:56PM by PIB Delhi

The Key Provisions of the Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 2025 will come into effect from 1st August 2025.  The Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 2025 was notified on 15th April 2025 (Gazette Notification link attached below). It contains a total of 19 amendments across five legislations—the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, Banking Regulation Act, 1949, State Bank of India Act, 1955 and Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 and 1980.

The notification said that the provisions of the Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 2025 “shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint” and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of the Act.

Accordingly, the Central Government appointed 1st August 2025 as the date on which the provisions of sections 3, 4, 5, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 of the Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 2025 (16 of 2025) shall come into force, as notified through Gazette Notification S.O. 3494(E) dated 29th July 2025 (link attached below).

The amendments aim to:

Redefine the threshold of ‘substantial interest’ from ₹5 lakh to ₹2 crore, revising a limit that has remained unchanged since 1968.

Align director tenures in cooperative banks with the 97th Constitutional Amendment by increasing the maximum tenure from 8 years to 10 years (excluding the chairperson and whole-time director).

Public sector banks (PSBs) will now be permitted to transfer unclaimed shares, interest, and bond redemption amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), bringing them in line with practices followed by companies under the Companies Act. The amendments also empower PSBs to offer remuneration to statutory auditors, facilitating the engagement of high-quality audit professionals and enhancing audit standards.

The Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 2025 seeks to improve governance standards in the banking sector, ensure enhanced protection for depositors and investors, improve audit quality in public sector banks, and increase the tenure of directors (other than the chairperson and whole-time directors) in cooperative banks.

Several initiatives taken by the Government to fast-track exports and imports

Posted On: 29 JUL 2025 6:10PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India has taken many steps to fast-track exports and imports under the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) framework. This was stated by Union Minister of State for Finance Shri Pankaj Chaudhary in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

The key steps taken includes the following facilitation measures for AEO certificate holders:

Higher level of facilitation in import and export of consignments;

Facility of Direct Port Delivery (DPD) import containers and/or Direct Port Entry (DPE) for export containers;

Automated Clearance and On-site examination for certain type of consignments;

Facility of Deferred payment for Tier-III and Tier-II AEO certificate holders;

Relaxed norms for submission of bank guarantee, wherever applicable;

Recognition by Partner Government Agencies and other Stakeholders.

AEO certificate holders also receive trade facilitation support from foreign customs administrations with whom India has signed Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRAs), thereby enhancing their global trade efficiency. 

The Minister stated that as on 30th June, 2025, 5,892 AEO certificates were issued.

Giving more details, the Minister further stated that the Government of India conducted more than 60 outreach programmes across the country in last 3 years, with particular focus on MSMEs to raise awareness about the AEO Scheme. Government of India conducted a global conference titled "India AEO Dialogue: Enhancing Global Trade Partnerships" in November 2024. Two conferences were also held in April and May 2025, with various stakeholders to raise awareness about the AEO programme. To increase participation of MSMEs, in 2020, along with prioritized processing of their applications, the accreditation process was relaxed for MSMEs, annexures to be provided with application for AEO certification by MSMEs were also rationalized. The norms for submission of bank guarantee, wherever required, were also relaxed for AEO Certificate holder MSMEs.

Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRAs) are based on mutual acknowledgment of supply chain security standards and AEO certificate holders of one country are recognized as secure and low-risk by the customs administration of another. Accordingly, exports by Indian AEO Certificate holders enjoy faster cargo release, fewer inspections and expedited customs clearance in partner countries, thus making exports by Indian AEO certificate holders more competitive and enhancing trade facilitation for them in partner countries.

Revolutionizing MSME lending, the model enables faster, objective, and fully digital loan assessments, significantly reducing paperwork, processing time, and reliance on physical documentation

Posted On: 28 JUL 2025 5:49PM by PIB Delhi

The New Digital Credit Assessment Model for MSMEs was announced in the Union Budget 2024-25. The model envisioned that the Public sector banks (PSBs) will build their in-house capability to assess MSMEs for credit, instead of relying on external assessment. PSBs would develop a new credit assessment model, based on the scoring of digital footprints of MSMEs in the economy. Subsequently, Union Finance Minister had launched the New Credit Assessment Model for MSMEs on 6th March, 2025.

The model leverages the digitally fetched and verifiable data and devises automated journeys for MSME Loan appraisal using objective decisioning for all loan applications and model-based limit assessment for both Existing to Bank (ETB) as well as New to Bank (NTB) MSME borrowers.

The digital footprints used by the model may include Pan authentication using National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL), Mobile and email verification using OTP, Application Programming Interface (API) fetch of GST data through service providers, Bank Statement Analysis using account aggregator, ITR upload and verification, API enabled commercial and consumer bureau fetch and due diligence using Credit Information Companies (CICs), fraud checks, through APIs, among others. The model is live with all banks with different loan amount threshold.

Under Traditional / Manual methods, banks rely on physical documents submitted by customers for manual underwriting. While under new credit assessment model, credit request and data submission as well as assessment is done entirely through digital process.

The introduction of the new digital credit assessment model does not involve any fundamental changes in the basic eligibility criteria for MSME loans in terms of regulatory norms or policy guidelines of individual bank. However, it simplifies the process of sanctioning loans and offers a more user-friendly and standardized approach by relying on digitally available data.

Between 1st April and 15th July, 2025, a total of 98,995 MSME loan applications have been sanctioned by the Public Sector Banks (PSBs) under New Credit Assessment Model.

Bank loans through new digital credit assessment model are decided within maximum of upto one day significantly reducing the turn around time (TAT) as compared to manual methods.

The benefits to MSMEs by use of this model include submission of application from anywhere through online mode, reduced paperwork and branch visit, instant in-principle sanction through digital mode, seamless processing of credit proposals, reduced TAT, credit decision based on objective data/ transactional behaviour among others.

Under the new model, credit decision is based on objective data/ transactional behaviour and credit history of the borrower. Further, credit request submission & assessment is done entirely through digital process which reduces subjectivity, fraudulent submission of credit information & error in decision making. This enables faster, transparent and more objective assessment of creditworthiness using system-generated credit logic and scorecards. Business Rule Engines (BREs) of banks will capture all risks as per its credit risk management policy.

Atal Pension Yojana (APY) Achieves Major Milestone, Gross Enrolments Surpass 8 Crore

Posted On: 25 JUL 2025 5:44PM by PIB Delhi

The Atal Pension Yojana (APY), a flagship social security scheme of the Government of India administered by PFRDA, has achieved a significant milestone by surpassing 8 crore total gross enrolments with an addition of 39 lakh new subscribers in the current Financial Year (FY 2025-26) alone. This milestone comes as the scheme celebrates its 10th anniversary since its launch on May 9, 2015.

Launched with a vision to create a universal social security system for all Indians, APY is a voluntary, contributory pension scheme, focused on the poor, the underprivileged, and workers in the unorganized sector. Its remarkable success is a result of the dedicated and untiring efforts of all Banks, Department of Posts (DoP) and SLBCs/UTLBCs and the continued support of the Govt. of India. PFRDA has actively driven enrolments through outreach programs, trainings, multilingual handouts, media campaigns, and regular reviews.

APY is meticulously designed to provide 'Sampurna Suraksha Kavach' (Complete Security Shield), by ensuring a guaranteed monthly pension of ₹1,000 to ₹5,000 for the subscriber post-60 years of age, the same pension to the spouse after the subscriber’s demise, and return of the accumulated corpus to the nominee after the death of both. It is open to all Indian citizens between the age of 18-40 years except those who are or have been income tax payers.

Gross NPAs reduce from 9.11% to 2.58% from March 2021 to March 2025

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 4:31PM by PIB Delhi

Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of public sector banks have been declining during the last five financial years. The NPAs have reduced from 9.11% to 2.58% from March 2021 to o March 2025. The details are as under:

Comprehensive measures have been taken by the Government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to recover and reduce NPAs. These measures include, inter alia, the following: 

Change in credit culture has been effected, with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) fundamentally changing the creditor-borrower relationship, taking away control of the defaulting company from promoters/owners, and debarring wilful defaulters from the resolution process. To make the process more stringent, personal guarantor to corporate debtor has also been brought under the ambit of IBC.

The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 and the Recovery of Debt and Bankruptcy Act have been amended to make it more effective.

Pecuniary jurisdiction of Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRTs) was increased from Rs. 10 lakhs to Rs. 20 lakhs to enable the DRTs to focus on high value cases resulting in higher recovery for the banks and financial institutions.

Public Sector Banks have set-up specialized stressed assets management verticals and branches for effective monitoring and focused follow-up of NPA accounts, which facilitates quicker and improved resolution/ recoveries. Deployment of Business correspondents and adoption of Feet-on-street model have also boosted the recovery trajectory of NPAs in banks.

Prudential Framework for resolution of stressed assets was issued by RBI to provide a framework for early recognition, reporting and time bound resolution of stressed assets, with a build-in incentive to lenders for early adoption of a resolution plan. 

As per RBI guidelines, banks have a board approved policy in place for valuation of properties done by professionally qualified independent valuers. RBI mandates banks to have a procedure for empanelment of professional valuers based on prescribed minimum qualifications and maintain a register of approved list of valuers. Valuation of fixed assets is done before sanction of loan to a borrower as part of the appraisal process and before sale to recover dues under SARFAESI Act, 2002. In order to maintain transparency, for properties valued at Rs 50 crore or above, banks obtain minimum two independent valuation reports. Upon enforcement of security interest for an NPA account, the bank takes possession of the property and obtains valuation from an approved valuer before disposing it off. RBI, vide its guidelines on sale of stressed assets by banks, has stated the use of e-auction as a desirable mode in sale of properties as it would attract a wide variety of borrowers and enable a better price discovery.

As per RBI master circular on Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning (IRAC) norms dated July 1, 2015, collateral such as immovable properties charged in favour of the bank should be valued once in three years by empanelled valuers. Further, Joint Lenders Forum (JLF) guidelines, issued by RBI in February 2014, empower banks to seek explanation from valuers who overstate security value and henceforth report their names to Indian Banks Association (IBA).

Government and RBI have taken key monetary and fiscal measures to control inflation and mitigate its impact on common citizen

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 4:21PM by PIB Delhi

The average inflation rate based on Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Wholesale Price Index (WPI) for the last three quarters is given in the table below:

This was stated by Union Minister of State for Finance Shri Pankaj Chaudhary in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

Under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934, the Minister stated, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) follows a policy of flexible inflation targeting as its primary monetary policy framework, whereby RBI targets Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation (headline inflation) to be maintained at 4% with a tolerance band of ±2 percentage points (i.e., the target range is 2% to 6%). Over the past three quarters, the CPI inflation rate has been within the RBI's tolerance band of 4% ±2%. WPI is not a specifically targeted inflation rate for RBI.

The Minister stated that the Government of India has undertaken a series of administrative measures, including fiscal and trade policy, to control inflation and mitigate its impact on the common citizen. These include, inter alia:

the augmentation of buffer stocks for essential food items

strategic sales of procured grains in the open market

facilitation of imports and export curbs during periods of short supply

implementation of stock limits to push more supplies of select commodities into the market

retail sales of select food items under the Bharat brand at subsidised rates, and above all, distribution of food grains free of cost to around 81 crore beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, and

increasing the disposable income of individuals by exempting annual incomes up to Rs. 12 lakh (and Rs. 2.75 lakh for salaried individuals with standard deduction) from income tax

Giving more details, the Minister further stated that complementing these efforts, the Reserve Bank of India's Monetary Policy Committee raised the repo rate by 250 basis points cumulatively (4% to 6.5%) between May 2022 and February 2023, and thereafter maintained it at 6.5% through January 2025. Consequently, the average year-on-year retail inflation, as measured by the CPI, fell from 5.4 per cent in 2023-24 to 4.6 per cent in 2024-25, the lowest in six years. As per the recent data, retail inflation dropped further to 2.1 per cent in June 2025. Consequent to a broad-based decline in inflation and to promote growth, RBI has brought in 100 basis point cut in policy (repo) rate since February 2025. These coordinated actions are aimed at balancing inflation control with sustained economic growth.

Bima Sakhi Scheme enrolls Over 2 Lakh Women

Posted On: 21 JUL 2025 6:43PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India launched Bima Sakhi- “Mahila Career Agent (MCA) Scheme” on 9.12.2024. LIC has paid Rs 62.36 crore to Bima Sakhis as stipend in FY2024-25. In the current Financial Year(2025-26), LIC has provided a budget of Rs 520 crore for the scheme, out of which Rs115.13 crore has been paid up to 14.7.2025. At present, there are 2,05,896 Bima Sakhis in the country.

LIC provides opportunities to Bima Sakhis, in furtherance of their career by way of several performance-based incentives. Graduate Bima Sakhis, after completion of 5 years, may participate in the recruitment process for the post of Apprentice Development officers of LIC, upon fulfilling the eligibility criteria.

Apart from above, LIC pays stipend to Bima Sakhis for first 3 years from their appointment to support them build a life insurance agency career. The stipend scheme is in addition to their commission pay-outs and is subject to certain performance parameters. The amount of the stipend ranges from Rs 7000/- per month in the first year to Rs 5000/- in the third year.

Government’s RRB Consolidation Drive reduces RRBs from 196 to 28 Under ‘One State-One RRB’ Policy to Boost Efficiency and Financial Strength

Posted On: 21 JUL 2025 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

In order to improve operational viability of Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) and to take advantage of economies of scale, Government of India initiated structural consolidation of RRBs in FY 2005-06. In Phase-I amalgamation (2005-2010), the number of RRBs was brought down from 196 to 82 by amalgamating RRBs of the same Sponsor Bank within a State. In Phase-II amalgamation (2012-14), the number of RRBs was brought down from 82 to 56, by amalgamating RRBs across Sponsor Banks within a State with geographically contiguous areas of operation. Phase-III amalgamation was initiated in the year 2019 by amalgamating weaker RRB with the stronger RRB. As a result of Phase-ill amalgamation, the number of RRBs was brought down from 56 to 43 at the end-March 2021.

A study on the impact of amalgamation of RRBs on their financial performance was undertaken by NABARD in 2021 and it was observed that the amalgamation process in the past had resulted in improved viability and financial performance of the RRBs. Findings of the study were published by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in their Statutory Publication on 'Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India (2020-2021).

The study revealed that during the different phases of amalgamation, the share of profitable and sustainably viable RRBs improved continuously and the quantum of accumulated losses as a percentage of total assets also declined. Improved profitability of RRBs post amalgamation, coupled with capital infusion in weak banks, boosted their leverage ratio, as well as the reserves to capital ratio.

Guided by the principle of 'One State-One RRB', the Government continued with the process of further consolidation of RRBs in Phase-IV amalgamation to achieve the benefits of scale efficiency and cost-rationalisation, whereby number of RRBs has been reduced from 43 to 28 w.e.f. 01.05.2025, in 26 states and 2 UTs, vide GoI notification dated 05.04.2025.

Amalgamation of RRBs has resulted in formation of a state level RRB with contiguous area of operation leading to simplifying management and ease of service delivery. The RRBs have increased their capital base, enhancing the financial stability and resilience of the merged entity. By consolidating operations and eliminating redundancies on account of separate administrative structures, amalgamation is expected to lead to cost savings. Further, amalgamated RRBs can invest in and leverage advanced technology platforms, leading to improved operational efficiency and customer service.

The amalgamation of RRBs, guided by the principle of 'One State-One RRB', has been carried out based on the audited financials as on 30.04.2025 with effective date of amalgamation as 01.05.2025. The Government has constituted State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) and National Level Project Monitoring Unit (NLPMU) to oversee and monitor the implementation of the amalgamation programme.

NABARD has issued National Level Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), containing detailed guidelines, which, inter alia, advises setting up of Amalgamation Project Management Unit (APMU), Steering Committee and Functional Committees in every Anchor/Transferee RRB to finalise the harmonised policies and operational guidelines, and to handle day-to-day integration plan.

The Gol Notification of amalgamation, inter alia, provides for protection of the remuneration and conditions of service of the existing RRBs employees. The inter-se seniority of officers and employees are guided by the National Level SOP issued by the NABARD. To protect the interest of rural customers, the NLPMU has advised all RRBs to give adequate publicity of amalgamation through various communication channels (electronic & print media, SMS to customers, customer awareness meets at branch level etc). Further, RRBs have been advised to take necessary steps to set up call centres to handle customer grievances. As informed by NABARD, all branches continue to function under the new entities, ensuring uninterrupted access to banking services. Migration of customer accounts, deposits, and loans is being carried out without any major disruption.

DFS launches 3 months campaign for Saturation of Financial Inclusion (FI) Schemes at Gram Panchayat (GP) & Urban Local Body (ULB) level in all districts from 01.07.2025 to 30.09.2025

Posted On: 01 JUL 2025 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

 A nationwide campaign has been launched by Department of Financial Services for the saturation of Financial Inclusion (FI) schemes at the Gram Panchayat (GP) & Urban Local Body (ULB) level today. The launch events were organized at 33 locations across the country. The event witnessed participation from public representatives, State Government officials, SLBC Conveners, Bankers and beneficiaries. In Gujarat, the Chief Minister graced the event virtually. 

The campaign will run from 01.07.2025 to 30.09.2025 (3 months) covering all 2.70 lakh GPs & ULBs in the country. During this period campaign will cover following activities:

Re-KYC of all saving bank account holders (wherever due)

Opening of bank accounts for unbanked adults under PMJDY

Enrolments under Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Atal Pension Yojna (APY)

Awareness sessions on digital fraud prevention and ways to access unclaimed deposit & grievance redressal

Facility of updating nomination in accounts (wherever pending)

On 1st day of the saturation campaign, camps were held in 2087 GPs across the country. The camps received warm response from the beneficiaries nationwide.

Cabinet Approves Research Development and Innovation (RDI) Scheme to scale up Research, Development and Innovation in Strategic and Sunrise Domains

Posted On: 01 JUL 2025 3:09PM by PIB Delhi

In a transformative step to bolster India’s research and innovation ecosystem, the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has today approved the Research Development and Innovation (RDI) Scheme with a corpus of Rs. One lakh Crore.

          Recognizing the critical role that the private sector plays in driving innovation and commercializing research the RDI Scheme aims to provide long-term financing or refinancing with long tenors at low or nil interest rates to spur private sector investment in RDI. The scheme has been designed to overcome the constraints and challenges in funding of private sector and seeks to provide growth & risk capital to sunrise and strategic sectors to facilitate innovation, promote adoption of technology and enhance competitiveness. Key objectives of the Scheme are as follows:

a)   Encourage the private sector to scale up research, development, and innovation (RDI) in sunrise domains and in other sectors relevant for economic security, strategic purpose, and self-reliance;

b)   Finance transformative projects at higher levels of Technology Readiness Levels (TRL)

c)    Support acquisition of technologies which are critical or of high strategic importance;

d)   Facilitate setting up of a Deep-Tech Fund of Funds.

           The Governing Board of Anusandhan National Research Foundation (ANRF), chaired by the Prime Minister, will provide overarching strategic direction to the RDI Scheme. The Executive Council (EC) of ANRF will approve the Scheme’s guidelines, and recommend 2nd level fund managers and scope and type of projects in sunrise sectors. An Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) led by the Cabinet Secretary, will be responsible for approving scheme changes, sectors and types of projects as well as second-level fund managers besides reviewing the performance of the Scheme. The Department of Science and Technology (DST) will serve as the nodal department for implementation of RDI Scheme. 

          The RDI Scheme will have a two-tiered funding mechanism. At the first level, there will be a Special Purpose Fund (SPF) established within the ANRF, which will act as the custodian of funds. From the SPF funds shall be allocated to a variety of 2nd level fund managers. This will be mainly in the form of long-term concessional loans. The funding to R&D projects by the 2nd level fund managers would normally be in the form of long-term loan at low or nil interest rates. Financing in the form of equity may also be done, especially in case of startups. Contribution to Deep-Tech Fund of Funds (FoF) or any other FoF meant for RDI may also be considered.

          By addressing the critical need of private sector for long-term, affordable financing, the RDI Scheme fosters self-reliance and global competitiveness, thereby facilitating a conducive innovation ecosystem for the country as it marches towards Viksit Bharat at 2047.

Monthly review of accounts of Government of India upto May 2025 (FY 2025-26)

Posted On: 30 JUN 2025 4:22PM by PIB Delhi

The monthly accounts of the Government of India upto the month of May, 2025 has been consolidated and reports published. The highlights are given below: -

The Government of India has received ₹7,32,963 crore (21.0% of corresponding BE 2025-26 of Total Receipts) upto May, 2025 comprising ₹3,50,862 crore Tax Revenue (Net to Centre), ₹3,56,877 crore of Non-Tax Revenue and ₹25,224 crore of Non-Debt Capital Receipts. ₹1,63,471 crore has been transferred to State Governments as Devolution of Share of Taxes by Government of India this period which is ₹23,720 crore higher than the previous year.

Total Expenditure incurred by Government of India is ₹7,46,126 crore (14.7% of corresponding BE 2025-26), out of which ₹5,24,772 crore is on Revenue Account and ₹2,21,354 crore is on Capital Account. Out of the Total Revenue Expenditure, ₹1,47,788 crore is on account of Interest Payments and ₹51,253 crore is on account of Major Subsidies. 

Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman releases fifth edition of National Time Release Study (NTRS) in New Delhi, today

Posted On: 20 JUN 2025 6:15PM by PIB Delhi

Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman released fifth edition of National Time Release Study (NTRS), during the CBIC Conclave held in New Delhi, today.

The Time Release Study (TRS) is a performance measurement tool that provides a quantitative assessment of the time taken for cargo release, helping to evaluate the efficiency of the clearance process. Since 2019, TRS has been conducted at 15 major locations, including seaports, Air Cargo Complexes (ACCs), Inland Container Depots (ICDs), and Integrated Check Posts (ICPs).

A key strength of India’s TRS lies in its use of accurate and reliable data sourced directly from the Customs Automated System, operated by the Directorate General of Systems and Data Management, CBIC. Over the years, the scope of TRS has significantly expanded. What began as a report measuring release time across select gateway ports went on to include other areas of considerable importance such as transit cargo, courier shipments, and commodity-specific assessments.

The fifth edition also adopted advanced methodologies to enable stage-wise and process-specific evaluations. This edition marked another milestone by widening its geographical coverage to three additional ports: Kochi Seaport, Garhi Harsaru ICD, and Jaigaon LCS.

In the import segment, Average Release Time (ART) declined between 2023 and 2025 across seaports (~6 hours), ACCs (~5 hours), and ICPs (~18 hours), while ICDs saw an increase of around 12 hours. Performance against NTFAP 3.0 targets showed that 93.33% of import cargo at ICPs met the 48-hour target, followed by air cargo complexes (55.03% within 24 hours), seaports (51.76%), and ICDs (43.70%).

Key contributors to improved timelines include the “Path to Promptness” framework—featuring advance filing, RMS-based facilitation, AEO accreditation, and Direct Port Delivery (DPD). However, delays were observed in processes such as duty payment, amendment/query resolution, PGA interventions, and post-clearance logistics.

Export cargo analysis, from arrival to final departure, revealed varied patterns across port categories. Regulatory clearance (arrival to Let Export Order) was fastest at air cargo complexes (under 4 hours) and ICPs (06:10 hours). At seaports, regulatory clearance averaged 29:36 hours, with post-LEO logistics extending to 157:50 hours. At ICDs, regulatory clearance of exports took 30 hours, with improvement in post-LEO logistics time to 99:51 hours.

High levels of facilitation (87–93%) were observed across ports. Release times were also influenced by cargo characteristics. For instance, refrigerated goods moved faster through air cargo, factory-stuffed cargo was cleared quicker than ICD-stuffed cargo.

Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs chairs 29th meeting of Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC), in Mumbai, today

Posted On: 10 JUN 2025 6:05PM by PIB Mumbai

Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs chaired the 29th meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC), in Mumbai, today. Union Minister of State for Finance Shri Pankaj Choudhary was also present along with FSDC members.

The FSDC, inter alia, deliberated on issues related to macro financial stability and India’s preparedness to deal with them. In light of the analysis of cybersecurity regulations, sectoral preparedness, and the recommendations of Financial Sector Assessment Programme (FSAP) 2024-25, the FSDC considered strengthening the cyber resilience framework of the Indian financial sector through a financial sector-specific cybersecurity strategy.

The FSDC discussed issues relating to formulating a strategy for implementing the past decisions and the budget announcements, which included:

establishing appropriate framework by regulators for evaluating and enhancing responsiveness of regulations and subsidiary instructions;

to take necessary steps to reduce the unclaimed assets in the financial sector (banks deposits, dividends, shares, post office accounts, insurance and pension funds etc.) and the expeditious and seamless refund of such assets to rightful owners;

prescribing common KYC norms, simplification and digitalisation of the KYC process including digital onboarding for Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) including PIOs and OCIs, in the Indian securities market;

analysing trends in financing flows as part of strategy to increase the investment ratio

taking measures to improve the reach and scope of factoring services and effective use of account aggregator networks.

The FSDC deliberated on the emerging trends from domestic and global macro-financial situation and stressed upon the need to be vigilant. The Council recognised the need for proactive efforts to mitigate potential risks to financial stability while adopting adequate safeguards for financial system’s resilience. The members decided to strengthen the inter-regulatory coordination for wider development of the financial sector.

The Union Finance Minister exhorted the Council to take proactive steps to ensure that citizens should have a seamless experience w.r.t KYC processes across the financial sector.

The Union Finance Minister urged the regulators and departments to expedite the process of refund to rightful owners of unclaimed amounts by holding special district level camps. This drive is to be conducted in coordination with RBI, SEBI, MCA, PFRDA and IRDA along with banks, pension agencies, insurance companies etc. The unclaimed amounts comprise of deposits in banks; unclaimed shares and dividends are managed by IEPFA; and unclaimed insurance and pension funds are with IRDAI and PFRDA respectively.

Smt. Sitharaman also emphasised that interest of common citizens to be kept in mind and therefore expeditiously refund the claims of the rightful claimants.

The FSDC also took note of the activities undertaken by the FSDC Sub-Committee chaired by the Governor, RBI, and the action taken by members on the pending past decisions of the FSDC.

Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman chairs 6th meeting of the Governing Council of National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) in New Delhi, today

Posted On: 09 JUN 2025 8:35PM by PIB Delhi

Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman chaired the 6th meeting of the Governing Council (GC) of the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund Limited (NIIF) in New Delhi, today.

The GC appreciated NIIF’s evolution as a sovereign-linked asset manager and acknowledged the efforts made over the years to build strong partnerships with marquee investors, including, prominent sovereign wealth funds such as Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and Temasek; pension funds such as AustralianSuper, Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB); Multilateral Development Banks such as Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and New Development Bank (NDB): and strategic government counterparts such as the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC).

Recognising NIIF’s growing role in mobilising capital into infrastructure and other key sectors of the Indian economy in line with the national priorities, the GC appreciated NIIFs performance and took note of the expansion in its Assets Under Management which has increased to more than ₹30,000 crore while catalysing capital of ₹11,7000 crore.

The GC was presented with an update on NIIF’s overall strategy, progress, the investment status, sector focus, performance and way forward across its four active funds:

Fund for infrastructure (Master Fund)

The fund of funds (Private Markets Fund)

Fund for climate and sustainability as well as India Japan corridor (the India Japan Fund), and

The fund with focus in growth equity (Strategic Opportunities Fund).

The GC appreciated that both Master Fund and Private Markets Fund are already 100% committed and that a part of Master Fund investments have gone into creation of greenfield assets in areas such as ports and logistics, airports, and data centres.

The GC took note of progress on NIIF’s upcoming Private Markets Fund II which has a target corpus of $1 billion, and appreciated the fact that PMF II has successfully onboarded private investors — in line with the earlier GC guidance and is set for its first closing shortly. The GC was also informed about the proposed bilateral Fund currently under discussion with USA. Guidance was also provided on aspects related to strategy, successful fund raising, timely operationalisation and effective deployment.

The GC advised NIIF to leverage its sovereign backed design and emphasised the need to professionally showcase its role and performance on the global stage and within the international investor community. The team at NIIF was advised to have a proactive approach to fund raising and the need to explore diversified sources of financing. The GC expressed its confidence for an enhanced role of NIIF going forward and advised for the meeting to be held annually.

The Governing Council meeting was also attended by Shri Ajay Seth, Finance Secretary and Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA); Shri M. Nagaraju, Secretary, Department of Financial Services (DFS); Ms. Anuradha Thakur, OSD (DEA), Shri C.S. Setty, Chairman, State Bank of India; and Shri Uday Kotak, Founder and Director, Kotak Mahindra Bank.

In view of upcoming festive season and to enable States to accelerate capital spending and finance their development/ welfare related expenditure, Union Government releases tax devolution of ₹1,01,603 crore to State Governments, as one advance instalment of tax devolution

Posted On: 01 OCT 2025 8:03PM by PIB Delhi

In view of upcoming festive season and to enable States to accelerate capital spending and finance their development/ welfare related expenditure, the Union Government has released an additional tax devolution of ₹ 1,01,603 crore to State Governments on 1st October, 2025, in addition to the normal monthly devolution due to be released on 10th October 2025.

MCA Widens the scope of fast track mergers under the Companies Act, 2013

Posted On: 11 SEP 2025 3:56PM by PIB Delhi

The Companies Act, 2013 regulates the incorporation, responsibilities, governance, and dissolution of companies in the country. Section 233 of the Companies Act, 2013 provides for merger or amalgamation of certain companies (Fast Track Merger) through approval of Central Government [Delegated to Regional Directors].  Section 233(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 allows mergers/demergers between (i) two or more small companies and (ii) holding company and its wholly owned subsidiary.  Section 233 empowers Central Government (MCA) to prescribe, by way of rules, additional classes of companies who can avail such fast track process.

In order to facilitate ease of doing business and allow small companies and start-up companies to avail such fast track procedure, amendment was made in the year 2021 in the Companies (Compromises, Arrangements and Amalgamations) Rules, 2016 (CAA Rules) to extend the scope of fast track process for merger/demergers between (a) two or more start-up companies and (b) one or more start-up company with one or more small company.  Subsequently through amendment made in CAA Rules in September, 2024, merger of a transferor foreign company incorporated outside India being a holding company with the transferee Indian company being its wholly owned subsidiary company incorporated in India (reverse flipping) has also been allowed through fast track merger procedure.

Pursuant to Para 101 of the Budget Speech (2025-2026), it was decided to further enhance the scope of such mergers. For this purpose, the CAA Rules have been amended on 4th September, 2025 after holding stakeholders consultations. Through this amendment mergers/demergers in respect of following additional classes of companies have been included in rule 25 of such rules for availing the fast track merger/demerger procedure:-

Two or more unlisted companies (other than section 8 companies) which meet prescribed thresholds of outstanding loans, debentures or deposits; 

Holding company and subsidiary companies excluding cases where transferor company is a listed company;

Two or more subsidiaries of the same holding company excluding cases where transferor company is a listed company.

IEPFA Launches “Niveshak Didi- Phase II”:  An initiative accelerated for Financial Literacy of Women by Women

Posted On: 01 SEP 2025 5:52PM by PIB Delhi

The Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA), under the aegis of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, successfully launched Phase II of its flagship financial literacy initiative – Niveshak Didi at Hyderabad today.

The initiative is aimed at deepening financial awareness and empowering rural communities, particularly women.

The launch was marked by a financial awareness camp held at Patelguda Panchayat, in the presence of Ms. Anita Shah Akella, CEO, IEPFA, and Shri Krishna Kumar L, Region Head, India Post Payments Bank (IPPB), Telangana Circle.

Ms. Anita Shah Akella emphasized the importance of equipping women and rural households with financial knowledge to make informed decisions, safeguard their hard-earned money, and actively participate in the nation’s financial ecosystem. She noted that Niveshak Didi serves as a catalyst for bridging knowledge gaps and building confidence in communities. The camp was held in the local language telugu to facilitate ease of understanding.

Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA) Set to Launch Integrated Portal to Simplify Claims and Strengthen Grievance Redressal

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 6:09PM by PIB Delhi

The Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA) is in the final phase of testing its Integrated Portal, a unified digital platform designed to streamline claim processes and enhance accessibility for both investors and companies. The portal will integrate key stakeholders—including depositories and the Public Financial Management System (PFMS)—to provide a seamless and efficient experience.

To ensure the accuracy of data submitted by companies and enable smooth claim processing, public notices under Rule 1(A) have been published on the official IEPFA website. These notices urge companies that have not yet uploaded their IEPF-1/7 SRNs along with the prescribed Excel template to complete the process at the earliest. Timely compliance is crucial for uninterrupted claim processing.

In parallel, IEPFA is undertaking a comprehensive review of documentation requirements for low-value claims, with the aim of introducing a simplified and faster claim settlement approach. Additionally, to strengthen its grievance redressal system, IEPFA is launching an Integrated Call Center that will offer more efficient, responsive, and stakeholder-friendly communication.

While these technological and procedural upgrades are being implemented, minor temporary disruptions may occur. IEPFA sincerely regrets any inconvenience and seeks the continued cooperation of stakeholders as it works towards building a more robust and investor-centric ecosystem.

IEPFA Convenes a Meeting with Nodal Officers from Companies across India to advance investor protection and improve compliance mechanisms

Posted On: 11 AUG 2025 5:54PM by PIB Delhi

The Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA), under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, held a meeting at New Delhi today with Nodal Officers from companies across India to advance investor protection and improve compliance mechanisms. The meeting was chaired by Mrs. Anita Shah Akella, CEO of IEPFA and Joint Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs. The session saw participation of 530 officers, including 25 attending in person at IEPFA’s New Delhi headquarters and 505 joining virtually.

The meeting outlined IEPFA’s upcoming Integrated Portal, which will help in faster and more efficient claim settlements. The Nodal Officers were also briefed about the new IEPF-5 form to be filed by claimants, as well as the e-Verification Report (EVR) to be filed by Nodal Officers, both set to be notified shortly.

A renewed focus was placed on the recently re-notified Form IEPF-1A, calling on companies yet to comply with the 2019 directive to submit the required information by 30th August 2025. It was highlighted that timely submission of this form will not only ensure faster processing of investor claims but also help reduce disparities in approved claim amounts. Often, although companies certify a certain amount, incomplete or unclear sets of records are submitted to the Authority, resulting in the approval of lower amounts. Accurate and complete data via Form IEPF-1A will enable the Authority to match and verify claims more precisely.

The ongoing “Saksham Niveshak” campaign (July 28 – November 6, 2025) was another key highlight. The 100-day drive encourages companies to proactively locate claimants, update KYC and nomination details, and disburse pending dividends before transfer to IEPF. Companies were urged to explore innovative outreach methods, including digital campaigns, AI-enabled claimant tracing, webinars, and hiring competitive third parties (if required) to maximise the campaign’s success.

Key Highlights from the Meeting include:

Brief on the upcoming launch of the Integrated Portal with revamped IEPF-5 form and EVR for faster, streamlined claims

Renewed emphasis on filing of Form IEPF-1A for companies yet to comply with the 2019 directive, with focus on reducing disparity in claim amounts through complete and clear records

Proactive shareholder engagement under “Saksham Niveshak” by use of technology-driven tools for claimant identification and awareness

Government has Implemented Series of Reforms to Simplify Corporate Compliance, Reduce Costs and Promote Ease of Doing Business for MSMEs and Startups

Posted On: 12 AUG 2025 4:24PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India has been taking several steps towards simplifying corporate compliance burdens and reducing costs for all companies including Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises and Startups.

The important measures taken in this regard in 2024-25 are as under:

Direct listing of securities by Indian public companies in permissible foreign jurisdictions has been allowed. This would boost "Brand India”, increase attractiveness to growing technology sector, stimulate efficiency & growth, provide alternative source of capital and broaden investor base. The Companies (Listing of equity shares in permissible jurisdictions) Rules, 2024 were notified on 24.01.2024.

The Ministry has carried out an amendment in the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 on 16.07.2024 (effective from 01.08.2024) to address the suggestions of stakeholders for allowing additional opportunities to update their personal mobile number/email address in the KYC database.

An amendment was made to the Companies (Adjudication of Penalties) Rules, 2014 on 05.08.2024 (effective from 16.09.2024) to transition to a faceless adjudication mechanism to eliminate physical hearings for corporate default cases. This process has made it easier for Directors and key Managerial Persons to attend the adjudication proceedings by introducing adjudication through online VC.

An amendment has been made in the Companies (Compromises, Arrangements and Amalgamations) Rules, 2016 on 09.09.2024 (effective from 17.09.2024). Pursuant to this amendment, merger of a holding company incorporated abroad with its wholly owned subsidiary incorporated in India would require approval of Central Government (delegated to Regional Directors). Prior to this amendment, such mergers required approval of the NCLT. This would make this process speedier and would allow NCLT to concentrate on other areas.

The C-PACE (Centre for Processing Accelerated Corporate Exit) (C-PACE) was made operational w.e.f. 1.05.2023 under Section 242(2) of the Companies Act, 2013 for centralized and transparent processing of the matters related to voluntary closure of the companies. Vide notification No G.S.R. 475(E) dated 5th August 2024 the Ministry centralized the striking off of Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) by empowering the CPACE for processing of e-Forms related to striking off of LLPs as well.

The Government of India has undertaken a number of steps to ensure the quick registration of companies and their approvals in India.

These initiatives are as under:

A single integrated new web form called SPICe+ along with AGILE PRO-S has been deployed. This form provides eleven services related to ‘starting a business’ namely (i) Name Reservation, (ii) Incorporation, (iii) Permanent Account Number (PAN), (iv) Tax Deduction Account Number (TAN), (v) Director Identification Number (DIN), (vi) Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) Registration, (vii) Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Registration, (viii) Goods and Services Tax (GST) number, (ix) Bank Account Number, (x) Profession Tax Registration (Mumbai, Kolkata and Karnataka), (xi) Delhi Shops and Establishment Registration.

Zero fee is now charged for incorporation of all companies with authorized capital up to Rs. 15 lakh or with up to 20 members where no share capital is applicable.

A Central Registration Centre (CRC) has been set up for name reservation and incorporation of companies & Limited Liability Partnership (LLP). 

The LLP Incorporation Form called FiLLiP has also been integrated with Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to provide PAN/TAN at the time of Incorporation of LLP itself.

The Central Processing Centre (CPC) was operationalized w.e.f 16.02.2024 for faster and centralised handling of various electronic e-forms filed earlier with jurisdictional ROCs under Companies Act, 2013.

The application process for startup recognition under the Startup India initiative has been streamlined and made entirely digital through an interactive Startup India portal and the National Single Window System (NSWS) making the same accessible from any part of the country. The documentation process for recognition is simplified with self-certification. Recognition handbook and tutorials have also been developed and uploaded on Startup India portal for ease of navigating recognition process. To promote startup recognition and to handhold entrepreneurs, workshops are held across States/UTs with support of State/UT nodal agencies for startups, and regional stakeholders such as incubators.

The action for amendment in Companies Act, 2013, LLP Act 2008 and Rules made thereunder is taken from time to time on the basis of inputs received from stakeholders and the recommendations of the Company Law Committee.

IBC Boosts Ease of Doing Business and Asset Realisation; 1,194 companies successfully resolved under IBC enabling realisation of ₹3.89 lakh core by creditors

Posted On: 18 AUG 2025 5:03PM by PIB Delhi

The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) has played a crucial role in reshaping India’s insolvency framework. The major achievement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) has been its ability to resolve financially distressed companies and realisation by the creditors thereon.  By offering a clear and time-bound framework for revival, the IBC has strengthened creditor confidence and encouraged both domestic and foreign investment.  The IBC has played a pivotal role in improving the ease of doing business in India by introducing a faster and more structured insolvency resolution process maximising the value of assets, promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests of all the stakeholders.   As of March 31, 2025, a total of 1,194 companies have been successfully resolved under the IBC framework. Through these cases, creditors have realised an amount of ₹3.89 lakh crore which is over 170% of the liquidation value and more than 93% of the fair value of these companies, as assessed at the time of admission into the IBC process.

 IBC has played a crucial role in improving the overall health of India’s banking sector. According to the latest RBI’s Financial Stability Report (June 2025), Gross Non- Performing Assets (GNPAs) have significantly declined, reaching a multi-decadal low of 2.3% at the end of March 2025. This reduction indicates a stronger, more stable banking system.  The RBI’s Report on Trends and Progress of Banking in India for 202324 (released on December 26, 2024) highlights that SCBs recovered a total of ₹96,325 crore through various channels. Out of this, the IBC channel alone contributed a significant ₹46,340 crore, accounting for 48.1% of the total recoveries.  The Government has undertaken six legislative amendments to the IBC and introduced over 100 changes to the regulations since its inception, to strengthen the insolvency resolution framework and enhance procedural efficiency thus minimizing the delays.

The IBC has led to a behavioural shift among companies and their debtors. By creating a credible threat that defaulting companies might lose ownership, the Code has fundamentally reshaped the dynamics between debtors and creditors. 

 Several initiatives have been taken to build the capacity of insolvency professionals (IPs). In FY 2024–25, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) conducted a series of workshops, webinars, and conclaves to enhance practical skills. It also collaborated with expert bodies like the World Bank, Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) and International Finance Corporation (IFC) for training and research. Additionally, international conferences at Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad, IIM Bangalore, and Indian School of Business (ISB) Hyderabad brought together global experts, offering IPs valuable exposure to best practices

Multiple initiatives taken by the Government to simplify and facilitate the registration of start-ups, including in small and medium cities

Posted On: 19 AUG 2025 5:51PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India has undertaken a number of steps to simplify and facilitate the registration of companies including start-ups throughout the country, including in small and medium cities.

Some of the important measures are as under:

A single integrated new web form called SPICe+ along with AGILE PRO-S has been deployed. This form provides eleven services related to ‘starting a business’ namely (i) Name Reservation, (ii) Incorporation, (iii) Permanent Account Number (PAN), (iv) Tax Deduction Account Number (TAN), (v) Director Identification Number (DIN), (vi) Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) Registration, (vii) Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Registration, (viii) Goods and Services Tax (GST) number, (ix) Bank Account Number, (x) Profession Tax Registration (Mumbai, Kolkata and Karnataka), (xi) Delhi Shops and Establishment Registration.

Zero fee is now charged for incorporation of all companies with authorized capital up to Rs. 15 lakh or with up to 20 members where no share capital is applicable.

A Central Registration Centre (CRC) has been set up for name reservation and incorporation of companies & Limited Liability Partnership (LLP).

The LLP Incorporation Form called FiLLiP has also been integrated with Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to provide PAN/TAN at the time of Incorporation of LLP itself.

The application process for startup recognition under the Startup India initiative has been streamlined and made entirely digital through an interactive Startup India portal and the National Single Window System (NSWS) making the same accessible from any part of the country.

The documentation process for recognition is simplified with self-certification. Recognition handbook and tutorials have also been developed and uploaded on Startup India portal for ease of navigating recognition process.

To promote startup recognition and to handhold entrepreneurs, workshops are held across States/UTs with support of State/UT nodal agencies for startups, and regional stakeholders such as incubators.

The Ministry has introduced several digital initiatives to enhance transparency, efficiency, and quickness in service delivery for reducing compliance burden and enhancing user experience, a few are listed below:

The Centre for Processing Accelerated Corporate Exit (CPACE) for centralized processing of voluntary closure of Companies/LLPs.

The MCA21 V3 platform facilitates Ease of Doing Business, and has introduced web-based forms, enabling real-time validation of the data entered by stakeholders. To further support stakeholders, a live chat feature has been integrated into the helpdesk, providing real-time assistance and enhancing the overall user experience.

The E-Adjudication system provides an end-to-end online platform for the processing of adjudication cases, ensuring efficiency and transparency.

Stakeholders can also raise tickets on the MCA21 portal to provide feedback and report grievances if any, regarding challenges faced.

The Central Processing Centre (CPC) was operationalized w.e.f 16.02.2024 for faster and centralised handling of various electronic e-forms filed earlier with jurisdictional ROCs under Companies Act, 2013.

Vide Companies (Amendment) Act, 2017, the requirement of Section 7(1)(c) in respect of furnishing “affidavits” by the first directors and the subscribers at the time of incorporation regarding their not being convicted of offences indicated therein was changed. After the amendment, the first directors and the subscribers are required to furnish a “declaration” in this regard. Simplification through amendment in rules and forms is carried out from time to time on the basis of suggestions of stakeholders.

IEPFA Opens Three Niveshak Seva Kendras in Hyderabad, Two more centres to be operational soon

Posted On: 20 AUG 2025 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

The Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA), under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, in collaboration with SEBI, CDSL, NSDL, BSE and NSE, has successfully opened three Niveshak Seva Kendras in Hyderabad. The centre, which commenced operations on 16th August 2025, marks a significant step towards strengthening investor protection and ensuring faster, hassle-free services for investors.

The Niveshak Seva Kendras have been set up to provide faster, easier and more accessible solutions to investors, particularly in matters related to unclaimed dividends and KYC/nomination updates.

Key services offered at the centre include:

Direct facilitation of unpaid dividend transfers. (pending for 6–7 years)

Hassle-free updates of KYC and nomination details.

For Physical Folios: Submit ISR-1/ ISR-2/ISR-3 forms to update KYC. Once updated, all pending dividends will be credited.

For Demat Accounts: Update bank details with your Depository Participant (DP) to receive unpaid dividends.

Currently, three centres have been opened in Hyderabad, and two more centres will be operational soon to further strengthen investor services in the region.

IEPFA Launches “Saksham Niveshak” – A 100-Day Drive to Facilitate Dividend Claims and KYC Updates

Posted On: 30 JUL 2025 7:57PM by PIB Delhi

The Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA), under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, has launched a 100-day campaign titled “Saksham Niveshak”, running from 28th July to 6th November 2025. This national drive is aimed at empowering shareholders by creating awareness about unclaimed dividends held by companies and guiding them through the process of updating their KYC and nomination details to reclaim their rightful dividend.

The campaign encourages companies to proactively reach out to their shareholders, helping them recover unclaimed dividends and resume the regular receipt of dividends by updating essential records. Timely action by shareholders will ensure that their dividends and underlying shares are not transferred to IEPFA.

Key Objectives of the “Saksham Niveshak” Campaign include:

•  Facilitate the resolution of cases related to unclaimed dividends lying with companies.

•  Support KYC and nomination updates for shareholders.

• Ensure direct dividend payouts from companies to the rightful investors.

The Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (IEPFA), established under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, is committed to promoting financial literacy, safeguarding investor interests, and protecting unclaimed dividends and shares. Through initiatives like Niveshak Didi, Niveshak Panchayat, and Niveshak Shivir, IEPFA strives to build a financially informed and empowered investor base across the country.

India-Russia agree to further increase trade and strengthen cooperation in the agricultural sector

Posted On: 26 SEP 2025 6:12PM by PIB Delhi

The Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan, today held a meeting with His Excellency Mr. Dmitry Patrushev, Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, at Krishi Bhawan.

During the meeting, the two leaders engaged in fruitful discussions on a broad range of issues of mutual interest, with a particular emphasis on deepening bilateral trade and cooperation in the agriculture sector. Key areas of dialogue included enhancing agricultural trade between the two countries, notably through the expansion of India’s exports of agriculture products.

Welcoming the Deputy Prime Minister, Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan underscored the exemplary level of mutual trust and understanding that characterizes the longstanding partnership between India and Russia. He shared India’s key priorities in the agriculture sector, including ensuring food security, enhancing farmer incomes, and promoting access to safe and nutritious food for all.

Reaffirming India’s commitment to the principle of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam—the world is one family—Shri Chouhan emphasized role of international collaboration in welfare of the farmers and food security of the citizens.

Mr. Dmitry Patrushev highlighted the longstanding and robust cooperation between India and Russia in many sectors including the agricultural sector. He conveyed Russia’s keen interest in further deepening agricultural trade ties between the two countries and showed interest in to formalize this partnership through the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU).

The discussions centered on enhancing mutual collaboration in the agricultural sector, with a focus on balancing bilateral trade and strengthening technical partnerships between the two countries. The Indian side underscored the importance of improved market access for key agricultural products in the Russian Federation, and expressed optimism for the timely resolution of outstanding issues.

Both sides also agreed to deepen cooperation in academic exchanges and scholarship opportunities for students, and to explore joint initiatives in seed traceability systems, with the aim of promoting innovation and advancing technology-driven solutions in agriculture.

Both sides reaffirmed their shared commitment to strengthening collaboration in agricultural trade, education, research, and development, with a view to promoting sustainable and inclusive growth in the sector.

In addition to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Russian delegation included Mr. Maksim Markovich, Deputy Minister of Agriculture of the Russian Federation; Mr. Denis Alipov, Ambassador of Russia to India; and Mr. Sergey Dankvert, Head of the Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Surveillance of the Russian Federation.

Representing India were Secretary of the Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Shri Devesh Chaturvedi; the Additional Secretary from the Ministry of External Affairs; Joint Secretaries from the International Cooperation Division (IC) and Plant Protection (PP); the Advisor on Trade; the Deputy Director General of Crop Sciences, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE); officials from the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (DAHD); along with other senior dignitaries.

India, Brazil Strengthen Partnership in Agri-Innovation through Maitri 2.0 Cross-Incubation Programme

Posted On: 22 SEP 2025 3:51PM by PIB Delhi

The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched the second edition of the Brazil–India Cross-Incubation Programme in Agritech (Maitri 2.0) at New Delhi today.  The event was graced by Dr. M. L. Jat, Secretary (DARE) & Director General (ICAR), and H.E. Mr. Kenneth Nobrega, Ambassador of Brazil to India, along with senior officials and representatives from leading Brazilian research and innovation institutions.

Dr. Jat highlighted the 77-year-old partnership between India and Brazil. He emphasized their shared role in global platforms like BRICS and G20, and the recent ICAR–EMBRAPA MoU as a milestone for collaboration across the agri-food value chain. Recalling historical agricultural linkages, Dr. Jat stressed the power of complementarities and the need for innovation-driven growth. He stated ICAR’s transformation from 74 patents in 1996 to over 1,800 annually, supported by incubation centers and over 5,000 licensing agreements. He also underscored that commercialization is about delivering public-funded innovations to end-users, not just revenue.  The DG called Maitri 2.0 a two-way learning platform for co-creation between Indian and Brazilian innovators and reaffirmed the commitment to building a stronger, innovative, and inclusive agri-food ecosystem for global food security.

H.E. Mr. Kenneth Nobrega, Ambassador of Brazil, in his remarks, expressed appreciation for ICAR’s initiative and underlined the strategic importance of creating synergies between the agritech ecosystems of India and Brazil. He emphasized that the Maitri 2.0 programme reflects the broader Brazil–India strategic partnership, aligning with the leaders’ shared vision for cooperation in agriculture, emerging technologies, and food and nutritional security. He called the initiative a strategic step, aligning with both nations’ vision for cooperation in agriculture, emerging technologies, and food and nutritional security.

Dr. Ch. Srinivasa Rao, Director, ICAR–IARI shared that ICAR–IARI has supported 400+ agri-startups, nurturing ideas into innovations and business models. “Agriculture must be seen as both a livelihood and a business,” he noted.   Welcoming the delegation, Dr.Neeru Bhushan, ADG (IPTM) set the context, highlighting the shared challenges of climate change, food security, and the need for sustainable intensification.

The event concluded with a vote of thanks by Dr. Vishwanathan Srinivasan, JD, ICAR-IARI acknowledging the efforts of ICAR and the Embassy of Brazil in deepening bilateral cooperation.

Bringing together innovators, startups, and institutions from both countries, the programme will help build resilient food systems and empower farmers.  Maitri 2.0 aims to strengthen incubator linkages, exchange best practices, promote co-incubation, and open new opportunities in sustainable agriculture, digital technologies, and value-chain development, bilateral cooperation

Government’s first-of-its-kind AI-based weather forecasting program for agriculture, reaching 3.8 crore farmers

Posted On: 12 SEP 2025 5:59PM by PIB Delhi

Crores of farmers across India depend on rainfall for Kharif farming—their main source of income and livelihood. If farmers receive advance forecasts about the monsoon, it can help them make better decisions about what to plant, how much, and when. This is now possible, thanks to a revolution in weather forecasting driven by artificial intelligence (AI). 

The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare (MoAFW) is harnessing the power of AI for farmers. In a novel public initiative, MoAFW sent AI-based monsoon forecasts via SMS (m-Kisan) to nearly 3.8 crore farmers across 13 states this year. This forecast was available earlier than ever before—up to four weeks ahead of the rain. AI-based models made it possible to design forecasts specifically for farmers’ needs, giving farmers a critical tool for planning their Kharif agricultural decisions. This is the first-of-its-kind targeted dissemination of AI weather forecasts to date, marking MoAFW as a world-leader in applying AI weather forecasting to directly benefit farmers.

In a program review meeting held at Krishi Bhavan on September 8, the Additional Secretary Dr. Pramod Kumar Meherda, and Joint Secretary Shri Sanjay Kumar Agarwal met with Nobel Laureate and University of Chicago Professor Michael Kremer to discuss the groundbreaking initiative by the Ministry and the expansion of the program. Additional Secretary Dr. Meherda remarked, “This program harnesses the revolution in AI-based weather forecasting to predict the arrival of continuous rains, empowering farmers to plan agricultural activities with greater confidence and manage risks. We look forward to continuing to improve this effort in future years.”

This year, the monsoon arrived early but there was a pause in the northward progression–stalling rains mid-season for 20 days. The AI-based forecasts distributed by the MoAFW correctly identified this pause in monsoon progression. The government sent updated information to farmers every week until continuous rains arrived in their area. “As climate change increases weather variability, forecasts are a useful tool to help farmers adapt ” , said Joint Secretary Shri Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.

AI Revolution in Weather Forecasting

Since 2022, an AI-driven revolution has transformed the science of weather forecasting, delivering more accurate predictions in many settings. These models can be tailored to meet user needs and are enhancing our ability to predict complex phenomena, such as the Indian monsoon, weeks in advance. MoAFW has taken a major step forward in applying this revolution to benefit crores of farmers.

The forecasts used by MoAFW were a blend of two open-access models—Google’s Neural GCM and ECMWF’s Artificial Intelligence Forecasting Systems (AIFS). In rigorous evaluations, these models were shown to clearly outperform other available forecasts at predicting the start of the monsoon locally for farmers.

Professor Ramesh Chand, Member of Niti Aayog stressed that focusing on the needs of farmers when providing weather information is essential. "This initiative is tremendously valuable because it centers specifically on the needs of farmers by providing tailored weather forecasts in easy to understand language and helps them make informed farming decisions.”

Working with teams from Development Innovation Lab - India and Precision Development, the Ministry worked directly with farmers to ensure that the messages were understood and actionable. 

“This is a huge achievement by the Ministry of Agriculture, benefiting millions of farmers and putting India at the cutting edge of addressing the needs of farmers,” said Nobel laureate Michael Kremer.“The Ministry’s program is a model for how to put people first in the age of AI.”

Regulation of Biostimulant Products under Fertilizer Control Order (FCO), 1985

Posted On: 09 SEP 2025 8:28PM by PIB Delhi

Prior to inclusion of Biostimulant products in Fertilizer Control Order (FCO), 1985, there were around 30000 products in the market. In order to regulate biostimulants in the country, the Government of India issued Notification No S.O. 882 (E) dated 23rd February, 2021 by which the biostimulants have been included in the Fertilizer Control Order (FCO), 1985 and provision under Clause 20C has been made for regulating the quality of biostimulant.

As per Fertilizer Control Order, 1985 (FCO) “Bio-stimulant” means a substance or micro-organism or a combination of both whose primary function when applied to plants, seeds or rhizosphere is to stimulate physiological processes in plants and to enhance its nutrient uptake, growth, yield, nutrition efficiency, crop quality and tolerance to stress, regardless of its nutrient content, but does not include pesticides or plant growth regulators which are regulated under Insecticides Act, 1968. Bio-stimulants specified in the Schedule VI shall be classified under any of the following categories, namely:-

(a)Botanical extracts, including seaweed extracts;

(b) Bio-chemicals;

(c) Protein hydrolysates and amino acids;

(d) Vitamins;

(e) Cell free microbial products;

(f) Antioxidants;

(g) Anti-transpirants;

(h) Humic & fulvic acid and their derivatives

(i) Live micro-organisms excluding biofertilisers and biopesticides

The provisional registration of biostimulants was a temporary provision for which G3 (Provisional Certificates) were issued for more than 8000 products of biostimulants to provide adequate time to manufacturers/importers for generating data on bioefficacy, toxicity, chemistry, etc. which is prerequisite for inclusion of biostimulants in Schedule VI, FCO. The Provisional registration for biostimulants was initially valid for a period of two years, ending 23rd February, 2023, which was extended till 22nd February, 2024, further extended till 22nd February, 2025 and again to 16th June, 2025, on the request of industry.

The Government has provided these extensions to the existing manufacturers/importers to manufacture/import for sale, sell, offer for sale, stock or exhibit biostimulants for a specific period to facilitate a smooth transition to the regulatory framework and ensure the continuation of manufacturing, importing, selling, and stocking of biostimulants by stakeholders. Keeping in view the interests of farmers, the Government has decided not to give any further extension to the provisional registration for biostimulant products beyond 16.06.2025. Accordingly, the Provisional Registration issued for biostimulants products stand invalid since 17.06.2025.

BOOSTING THE FARM PRODUCTIVITY

Posted On: 19 AUG 2025 5:41PM by PIB Delhi

According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) July 2023 - June 2024, conducted by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI), 46.1% of the workforce in India is employed in the agriculture sector. Further, as per the National Accounts Statistics 2025, this sector contributed approximately 17.8 per cent of the country’s GDP for FY 2023-24. The Government of India has undertaken several initiatives aimed at enhancing farm productivity.

The details of select major schemes pertaining to enhancement in agricultural productivity:

The National Food Security and Nutrition Mission (NFSNM) is implemented in 28 States and 2 Union Territories (UTs) viz. Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The objective of NFSNM is to increase production of foodgrains through area expansion and productivity enhancement. Under this Scheme, the incentives are provided to the farmers, through the States/UTs, on crop production and protection technologies, cropping system- based demonstrations, distribution of certified seeds of newly released varieties/hybrids, integrated nutrient and pest management techniques, improved farm implements/tools/resource conservation machineries, water saving devices, capacity building of farmers through trainings during cropping season, etc.

The Ministry advises the States and seed producing agencies from time to time to place the breeder seeds indents of newly released High Yielding Varieties (HYVs), stress-tolerant varieties (drought, flood and salinity) including stress tolerant/ climate-resilient /smart varieties (to tackle the challenges of climate changes in a more effective way) of different crops developed by ICAR Institutes /State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) etc. for further multiplication into foundation and certified seeds, so as to make available to the farmers, the required seeds of these crops varieties to enhance farm production, productivity and also to help farmers’ profitability in the country.

The Government of India is promoting mechanization with the specific aim of increasing the reach of farm mechanization to small and marginal farmers and to the regions where availability of farm power is low. It also aims at promoting 'Custom Hiring Centers' to offset the adverse economies of scale arising due to small land holding and high cost of individual ownership. In this regard, a Centrally Sponsored Scheme 'Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanization' (SMAM) is being implemented through the State Governments. Under SMAM, financial assistance is being provided for purchase of agricultural machinery and equipments, including tractors, to the farmers on individual ownership-basis and for establishment of Custom Hiring Centre (CHC)/High Tech Hub/Farm Machinery Bank (FMB).

The Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare is also implementing CentrallySponsored Scheme of Per Drop More Crop (PDMC) from 2015-16 onwards. PDMC focuses on enhancing water-use efficiency at farm-level through Micro Irrigation viz. Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation Systems. The Micro Irrigation helps in saving water as well as reduced fertilizer usage (through fertigation), labour expenses, other input costs and thereby, creating overall income enhancement of farmers. Further, NITI Aayog conducted an evaluation study on PDMC scheme during the year 2021, which revealed that productivity increased in the range of 9% to 100% for various crops in different States through adoption of micro irrigation.

EVALUATION OF PROGRESS OF AIF

Posted On: 19 AUG 2025 5:43PM by PIB Delhi

The Government has undertaken a mid-term evaluation of Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) scheme. Agro Economic Research Centre (AERC), Pune evaluated the scheme’s progress and performance, gather beneficiary feedback, and suggest improvements in December 2023. The evaluation highlighted positive impact of the scheme in terms of increase in farmers’ income, increase in agriculture storage capacity, growth of post-harvest and value addition infrastructure for agriculture produce, generation of employment and encouraging agriculture entrepreneurship. The detail of the outcomes of the study are as below: 

31% of the AIF units availed government subsidies also. Thus, they have been benefitted due to Convergence under AIF.

Around 85% of the total units, availability of AIF loan was the main reason for starting the unit.

On an average about 40% of the project cost of the AIF units was covered by AIF loan.

Around 70% of the units have taken loan for creating new infrastructure.

The employment generated by AIF unit activities was relatively higher in peak seasons than in slack season. The average number of persons employed per unit in the peak season was found to be 11. The average was highest i.e. 27 in Rajasthan and lowest i.e. 5 in the state of Maharashtra.

Number of persons employed per unit was higher in case of agro processing units.

The total capacity created by sample AIF warehouse, cold storage units and silos is around 879 thousand MT. Also, these units have occupied total area of around 2900 thousand sq. feet.

Overall responses reveal satisfactory demand for products/services of AIF units and satisfactory income from these units.

Most of the units are situated in the rural areas indicating proximity to the agriculture production regions and around 54% of the respondents believed that incomes of farmers have increased because of the AIF units and majority of them reported that the increase in incomes was very high and satisfactory.

Around 54% of the respondents felt that overall, the farmers have benefitted due to the AIF facilities.

As on 30th June, 2025, Rs. 66,310 Crores have been sanctioned for 1,13,419 projects under AIF These sanctioned projects have mobilized an investment of Rs. 107,502 Crores in the agriculture sector. Major projects sanctioned under AIF include 30,202 custom hiring centres, 22,827 processing units, 15,982 warehouses, 3,703 sorting & grading units, 2,454 cold store projects, around 38,251 other kinds of post-harvest management projects and viable community farm assets.

NATIONAL POLICY TO PROMOTE GLOBALLY IMPORTANT AGRICULTURAL HERITAGE SYSTEMS (GIAHS) SITES IN INDIA

Posted On: 19 AUG 2025 5:40PM by PIB Delhi

As informed by Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), India currently hosts three Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS): the Koraput region in Odisha, the Kuttanad farming system in Kerala, and the Saffron Heritage of Kashmir. The Koraput region is renowned for its subsistence paddy cultivation, predominantly on highland slopes, and is home to a vast diversity of paddy landraces and farmer-developed varieties. It also harbors rich genetic resources of medicinal plants, deeply interwoven with the indigenous tribal communities and their traditional knowledge systems. The Kuttanad system in Kerala stands out as a unique below-sea-level farming landscape, comprising wetlands for paddy cultivation and fish catching, garden lands for coconut and food crops, and inland water bodies for fishing and shell collection. Meanwhile, the Saffron Park of Kashmir represents a rich agro-pastoral system characterized by traditional saffron cultivation, intercropping, and the use of organic farming practices, all of which contribute to maintaining local biodiversity and soil health.

GIAHS is an FAO programme. Schemes and policies of Government of India support these sites. As reported by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, for economic revival of saffron cultivation in Jammu and Kashmir has been supported under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) and Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH).

Government of Odisha reported that proactive steps have been taken on conserving its biodiversity, preserving landraces of different crops and branding in Koraput. The programme also incorporates community seed banks and organic farming methods, focussing on revival of neglected crops and forgotten foods.

As reported by the Government of Kerala, two works for the development of infrastructure in the paddy sector in the Kuttanad region are included under the current year’s RKVY-DPR projects. These include: (i) ‘Haritam Harippad’—infrastructural development works of various Padasekharams in Alappuzha District. (ii) Assistance to Research on ‘Ecological Utilization of Water Hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) in Kuttanad’.

MINIMUM SUPPORT PRICES (MSPS)FOR ALL CROPS

Posted On: 19 AUG 2025 5:38PM by PIB Delhi

Every year, Government fixes Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for 22 mandated agricultural crops for the country as a whole, based on the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP), after considering the views of the State Governments and Central Ministries/Departments concerned. The Government has implemented digital payment system for MSP procurement.

Presently, no scheme for loan waiver is in operation in the Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. However, farmers are provided significant support through other schemes such as MinimumSupportPrice (MSP), PM Kisan,PradhanMantriFasalBimaYojana, Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS) and the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) to address their financial vulnerability in a structured manner.

Minimum Support Price (MSP): The details of procurement, MSP amount paid to farmers and number of farmers benefitted during 2024-25 (from July to June) is given below.

Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme is a central sector scheme launched in February 2019 to supplement the financial needs of land-holding farmers. Under the scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000/- per year is transferred in three equal installments, into the Aadhaar seeded bank accounts of farmers through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. Maintaining absolute transparency in registering and verifying beneficiaries, the Government of India has disbursed over Rs 3.69 lakh Crore through 19 installments since inception.

The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (PMFBY) was introduced in the country from Kharif 2016 season. The scheme provides financial support to farmers suffering crop loss/damage arising out of natural calamities, adverse weather incidence and to stabilize the income of farmers etc. Since inception of the scheme in 2016, farmers paid a total premium of Rs 35,753 Crore Rupees and have received claims of Rs 1.83 lakh Crore Rupees (as on 30.06.2025), which is roughly 5 times the farmers premium paid during the same period.

Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS): The government is implementing a 100% centrally funded Central Sector Scheme known as the Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS) across various States and UTs in India. This scheme aims to provide concessional interest rates on short-term agricultural loans obtained by farmers through Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) for their working capital requirements. The details of disbursement of funds under Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS) during the last five years is given below:

  The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) is a Central Sector Scheme launched by the Government of India in 2020 under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, with the objective of mobilizing a medium to long-term debt financing facility for investment in viable post-harvest management and community farming assets. The Scheme aims to drive growth and modernization in the agriculture sector by addressing the existing gaps in post-harvest management infrastructure in the country. Under AIF, provision for Rs. 1 Lakh crore loan has been made through lending institutions with interest rate cap of 9% on loans. The Scheme target of Rs 1 lakh crore has been tentatively allocated to all the States and UTs on the basis of the ratio of total value of output of Agriculture and Allied sectors of respective States/UTs.

As on 30th June 2025, Rs. 66,310 crore have been sanctioned for 1,13,419 projects under AIF. These sanctioned projects have mobilized an investment of Rs.107,502 Crore in the agriculture sector. Major projects sanctioned under AIF include 30,202 custom hiring centres, 22,827 processing units, 15,982 warehouses, 3,703 sorting & grading units, 2,454 cold store projects, around 38,251 other kinds of post-harvest management projects and viable farming assets.

NATIONAL POLICY FRAMEWORK ON AGRICULTURE AND MARKETING (NPFAM)

Posted On: 12 AUG 2025 4:14PM by PIB Delhi

Various States have established Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) as per local needs to support farmers, including small and marginal farmers as agricultural marketing is a state subject.

To facilitate farmers in selling their produce at fair price without the interference of middlemen, Government of India has launched National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) platform in 2016. e-NAM platform has significantly benefited rural farmers by increasing market access, improved price discovery, reduced transaction costs, access to wider markets, reduced dependence on local market and improved income opportunities. The Platform has also brought more transparency, efficiency and promoted financial inclusion by facilitating online payments and reducing the need for cash transactions.

 Till 30th June, 2025, 1,522 mandis have been integrated with the electronic National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) platform across 23 States and 4 Union Territories. From June 2024 to June 2025, the platform recorded 21% increase in trade volume and 22% increase in trade value.

Every year, Government fixes Minimum Support Price (MSP) for 22 mandated agricultural crops, based on the recommendations of Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP), after considering the views of State Governments and Central Ministries/Departments concerned. Government had increased MSP for all mandated Kharif, Rabi and other Commercial crops with a minimum return of 50 percent over all India weighted average cost of production from the year 2018-19 onwards. During 2014-15 to 2025-26 (up to 30.06.2025) Government has procured 315.19 LMT agricultural produce (oil seeds, pulses and Copra) in respect of worth Rs.1,69,980.90 crore from farmers. Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay SanraksHan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA) is also being implemented to ensure remunerative prices for farmers, particularly for pulses, oilseeds and copra, through the scheme components of Price Support System (PSS) and Price Deficiency Payment System (PDPS).

DIGITAL AGRICULTURE MISSION

Posted On: 12 AUG 2025 4:13PM by PIB Delhi

The Government has approved the Digital Agriculture Mission in September 2024. The Mission envisages the creation of a Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) for Agriculture, such as AgriStack, Krishi Decision Support System (KDSS), and a comprehensive Soil Fertility & Profile Map to enable a robust digital agriculture ecosystem in the country. This, in turn, would drive innovative farmer-centric digital solutions and make reliable crop-related information available to all farmers on time. The AgriStack DPI consists of three foundational registries or databases associated with the agriculture sector, i.e., Geo-Referenced Village Maps, Crop Sown Registry and the Farmers Registry, all created and maintained by the State Governments/ Union Territories.

Farmer Registry provides comprehensive and useful data on farmers' demographic details, land holdings, and crops sown, enabling farmers to digitally identify and authenticate them for accessing benefits and services such as credit, insurance, procurement etc. It also enables state to design solutions that open access for farmers to the digital economy such as Purchase and Sell of Inputs and Produce online in a trustful manner. Digital Crop Survey (DCS) System provides accurate, real-time crop area information for every agricultural plot.

Krishi-DSS integrates and standardizes geospatial and non-geospatial data, including satellite, weather, soil, crop signatures, reservoir, and groundwater data, along with government scheme information. Krishi-DSS offers crop maps, soil maps, automated yield estimation models, drought/flood monitoring systems, etc, which support evidence-based decision-making by the government and facilitate innovative solutions by research institutions and the agritech industry.

Further, a nationwide Soil Resource Mapping project has been initiated by the Soil and Land Use Survey of India (SLUSI), which is inventorying soils at a village level at 1:10,000 scale using high-resolution satellite and ground data to standardized soil maps for rational land use and crop planning to promote sustainable agriculture.

Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (DA&FW) is implementing the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Per Drop More Crop (PDMC) in the Country from 2015-16. PDMC focuses on enhancing water use efficiency at the farm level through Micro Irrigation, namely Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation Systems. The Micro Irrigation helps in water saving as well as reducing fertilizer usage through fertigation, labour expenses, other input costs and overall income enhancement of farmers.

The Government provides financial assistance @ 55% for small and marginal farmers and @ 45% for other farmers for installation of Drip and Sprinkler systems under the PDMC. Besides State Government, also provide Top-up subsidy to farmers from their State Budget. The Assistance for installation of Micro Irrigation systems is limited to 5 hectares per beneficiary.

MAJOR REFORMS FOR DOUBLING FARMERS’ INCOME

Posted On: 12 AUG 2025 4:12PM by PIB Delhi

Government of India has identified following integrated strategy for enhancing the farmers income and comprehensive growth of agriculture sector:-

Increase crop production/ productivity

Reduce cost of production

Remunerative returns of farmers’ produce to enhance their incomes.

(iv)     Agricultural diversification

(v)       Developing post harvest value addition

(vi)     Adaptation to climate change for sustainable agriculture and mitigate against crop losses

 All Schemes/programmes of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare are aligned to achieve these objectives. Since Agriculture is a State subject, Government of India supports the States through appropriate policy measures, budgetary allocation and various schemes.  The Government has substantially enhanced the budget allocation of Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare(DA&FW) from Rs. 21,933.50 crore BE during 2013-14 to Rs. 1,27,290.16 crore BE during 2025-26.

The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has launched following Major Schemes for increasing the farm Production, providing alternate occupational paths for rural households by making available better seeds and farm technology, drip irrigation, crop planning, warehouse facilities etc:-

Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN)

Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana (PM-KMY)

Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY)/ Restructured Weather Based Crop  Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS)

Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS)

Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF)

Formation and Promotion of 10,000 new Farmer Producers Organizations (FPOs)

National Bee Keeping and Honey Mission (NBHM)

Namo Drone Didi

National Mission on Natural Farming (NMNF)

Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay SanraksHan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA)

Agri Fund for Start-Ups & Rural Enterprises’ (AgriSURE)

 Per Drop More Crop (PDMC)

13. Sub-Mission on Agriculture Mechanization (SMAM)

14. Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY)

15. Soil Health & Fertility (SH&F)

16. Rainfed Area Development (RAD)

17. Agroforestry

18. Crop Diversification Programme (CDP)

19. Sub-Mission on Agriculture Extension (SMAE)

20. Sub-Mission on Seed and Planting Material (SMSP)

21. National Food Security and Nutrition Mission (NFSNM)

22. Integrated Scheme for Agriculture Marketing (ISAM)

23. Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH)

24. National Mission on Edible Oils (NMEO)-Oil Palm

25. National Mission on Edible Oils (NMEO)-Oilseeds

26. Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region

27. Digital Agriculture Mission

28. National Bamboo Mission

RADHAN MANTRI ANNADATA AAY SANRAKSHAN ABHIYAN (PM-AASHA)

Posted On: 12 AUG 2025 4:11PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India is implementing the integrated Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA) with the objective of ensuring remunerative prices to farmers and making essential commodities available to consumers at affordable prices. The scheme components are Price Support Scheme (PSS) and Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF), along with Price Deficit Payment Scheme (PDPS) and Market Intervention Scheme (MIS).

PSS is operationalised on request of the concerned State/UT Governments when market prices of notified pulses, oilseeds, and copra fall below the notified Minimum Support Price (MSP) during the peak harvesting period. The primary objective of this component is to safeguard farmers against distress sales by ensuring procurement at MSP. Under PSS, procurement of eligible commodities conforming to the prescribed Fair Average Quality (FAQ) standards is undertaken by designated Central Nodal Agencies (CNAs) i.e. National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) and National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation of India Ltd. (NCCF), which operate through State-level agencies. Procurement is carried out directly from pre-registered farmers who possess valid land records, thereby eliminating the role of intermediaries and ensuring that the benefits of MSP accrue directly to farmers.

The Department of Consumer Affairs administers the PSF component of integrated PM-AASHA with an objective of protecting consumers from volatility in prices of agri-horticultural commodities and ensure availability at affordable prices. The commodity procured under PSF buffer are released in a calibrated manner during low supply and lean season. The Government maintains the buffer stocks of major pulses such as Tur, Urad, Chana, Moong, Masur and onion under PSF.

The integrated implementation of PSS and PSF under PM-AASHA ensures a balanced approach that supports farmers through assured procurement at MSP and addresses consumer interests through price stabilization measures, contributing to both farmer welfare and food price stability.

Under PM-AASHA, the Government provides support to farmers well before the commencement of procurement operations through CNAs, State Governments, and their designated agencies. To facilitate farmer participation and smooth registration, extensive awareness generation and publicity activities are undertaken in advance of the procurement season by CNAs, State Governments, and Primary Procuring Agencies through electronic and print media.

 To ensure transparency, efficiency, and ease of operations under the Price Support Scheme (PSS), NAFED and NCCF have developed dedicated digital platforms: e-Samriddhi and e-Samukti respectively. These portals streamline the entire procurement process, from farmer registration to final payment, thereby reducing manual intervention. Farmers can register themselves on these portals by providing basic details such as Aadhaar number, land records, bank account information, crop details etc. Pre-registered farmers, if willing to offer their stock under the scheme, can select their nearest purchase centre, thereafter, scheduling is done by portal for physical visit to centre on a particular date. This system ensures timely and direct transfer of MSP payments into farmers’ bank accounts, eliminating delays and intermediaries.

A major gift for farmers — Insurance claim amounts credited directly to their bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana

Posted On: 11 AUG 2025 6:43PM by PIB Delhi

Union Agriculture Minister Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan digitally transfers the insurance amounts to farmers’ accounts from Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, A total of ₹3,900 crore in insurance claims given to 35 lakh farmers. Rajasthan Chief Minister Bhajanlal Sharma was also present at the programme

UTILIZATION OF DATA COLLECTED UNDER DAM

Posted On: 08 AUG 2025 4:58PM by PIB Delhi

The Government has approved the Digital Agriculture Mission in September 2024. The Mission envisages the creation of a Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) for Agriculture, such as Agri Stack, Krishi Decision Support System, a comprehensive Soil Fertility & Profile Map and other IT initiatives undertaken by Central Government/State Governments to enable a robust digital agriculture ecosystem in the country. This, in turn, would drive innovative farmer-centric digital solutions and make reliable crop-related information available to all farmers on time. The Agri Stack DPI consists of three foundational registries or databases associated with the agriculture sector, i.e., Geo-Referenced Village Maps, Crop Sown Registry, and the Farmers Registry, all created and maintained by the State Governments/ Union Territories.

The State Farmer Registry covers all the land holders’ farmer. As of 04.08.2025, a total of 7,04,49,809 Farmer IDs have been generated. Further, Digital Crop Survey has been undertaken in 492 Districts in Rabi 2024-25 for more than 23.5 Crore plots.

Agri Stack provides comprehensive and useful data on farmers' demographic details, land holdings, and crops sown, enabling farmers to digitally identify and authenticate them for accessing benefits and services such as credit, insurance, procurement etc. It also enables state to design farmer-centric solutions that open access for farmers to the digital economy such as Purchase and Sell of Inputs and Produce online in a trustful manner.  On the request of the State Governments, Farmer ID is being used for farmers to get enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS) from Kharif 2025 onwards for Maharashtra. Further, Farmer ID is also being used in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh for enrolment under PMFBY and RWBCIS. Further, the Farmer ID is also being used for issue of Kisan Credit Card (KCC) to provide loans to farmers. At present, the data is being shared only with government agencies for the benefit of farmers under various schemes.

CORRECTIVE STEPS TO ADDRESS STRUCTURAL CHALLENGES IN AGRICULTURE.

Posted On: 08 AUG 2025 4:58PM by PIB Delhi

The Government is implementing National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) to make Indian Agriculture a sustainable production system. Several schemes have been initiated under NMSA to achieve resilience in Agriculture. Per Drop More Crop (PDMC) scheme increases water use efficiency at the farm level through micro irrigation technologies i.e. drip and sprinkler irrigation systems. Rainfed Area Development focuses on Integrated Farming System for enhancing productivity and minimizing risks associated with climatic variability. The Soil Health & Fertility scheme assists states in promoting integrated nutrient management through judicious use of chemical fertilizers including secondary and micronutrients in conjunction with organic manures & bio-fertilizers for improving soil health and its productivity. Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, Agroforestry & National Bamboo Mission also promote climate resilience in agriculture. Organic farming is supported by the schemes of Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) and Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region (MOVCDNER). PKVY is being implemented in all the states other than North Eastern (NE) states, whereas MOVCDNER is being implemented exclusively in the NE states. These schemes provide end-to-end support to organic farmers i.e. from production to processing, certification and marketing, in cluster-based approach where preference is given to small and marginal farmers. Further to address the impact of climate change, the National Agricultural Research System has released 2900 varieties during last 10 years (2014-2024). Out of these 2661 varieties are tolerant to one or more biotic and/or abiotic stresses. Climate resilient technologies such as system of rice intensification, aerobic rice, direct seeding of rice, zero till wheat sowing, cultivation of climate resilient varieties tolerant to extreme weather conditions such as drought and heat; in-situ incorporation of rice residues; etc. have been developed and demonstrated.

FORMATION AND PROMOTION OF FPOs

Posted On: 08 AUG 2025 4:57PM by PIB Delhi

10,000 Farmers Producer Organization (FPOs) have been registered under the Central Sector Scheme for “Formation and Promotion of 10,000 Farmer Producer Organizations”.

Each FPO registered under the Scheme is provided Rs.18 lakh as management cost over 3 years, matching equity grant of upto Rs.15 lakh per FPO (@Rs.2000/- per farmer) and credit guarantee facility upto Rs.2 crore for project loan from eligible lending institutions.  Government, in coordination is with States is facilitating these FPOs in obtaining input licenses including for seed, fertilizer, pesticide, mandi, etc. to enable them to function as agri-business enterprises. The FPOs have been onboarded on digital platform like e-NAM (Electronic National Agriculture Market), ONDC (Open Network for Digital Commerce) and GeM (Government e-Marketplace) to provide access to digital markets. The Scheme has provision for training of all the stakeholders through digital mode to, enhance their skills at their own pace.

Besides, weekly webinars are organized to create awareness of government schemes and promote market linkages. 

The various initiatives undertaken under the scheme to support the FPOs have resulted in cumulative turnover of ₹5,035.5 crore as on 30th June, 2025.

INCREASE IN REAL INCOME FOR SMALL AND MARGINAL FARMERS

Posted On: 08 AUG 2025 4:56PM by PIB Delhi

The average monthly income of agricultural households in the country is periodically estimated through the “Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households”, conducted by the National Statistics Office (NSO), Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI). As per the latest NSS 77th round of the Survey (January, 2019 – December, 2019) with reference to the agricultural year July, 2018- June, 2019 in the rural areas of the country, the average monthly income per agricultural household from various sources is estimated at Rs. 10, 218/- per month.

The Government has implemented various policies, reforms, developmental programs, and schemes from time to time, covering entire spectrum of agriculture, to ensure the welfare and increase the income of farmers including small and marginal farmers in the country by increasing production, remunerative returns and providing income support.

Ministry has identified following integrated strategy for enhancing the farmers’ income and comprehensive growth of agriculture sector:

(i) Increase crop production/ productivity

(ii) Reduce cost of production

(iii) Better price realization of farmers’ produces to enhance their incomes.

(iv) Agricultural diversification

(v) Developing post-harvest value addition

(vi) Adaptation to climate change for sustainable agriculture and mitigate against crop losses.

The various schemes/ programmes implemented by Government of India include Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana (PM-KMY), Fixing of Minimum Support Price (MSP) at one-and-a half times the cost of production, Agriculture Infrastructure Fund  (AIF), Formation and Promotion of 10,000 Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA), Modified Interest Subvention  Scheme (MISS), National Bee Keeping and Honey Mission (NBHM), Agri Fund for Start Ups & Rural Enterprises' (AgriSURE), Integrated Scheme for Agriculture Marketing  National Agriculture Market (ISAM eNAM), Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY), among  others.   Further, Government had increased MSPs for all mandated Kharif, Rabi and other Commercial crops with a minimum return of 50 percent over all India weighted average cost of production from 2018-19 onwards. Additionally, the Government has substantially enhanced the budget allocation of Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (DA&FW) from Rs. 21933.50 crore BE during 2013-14 to Rs. 1,27,290.16 crore BE during 2025-26.   These initiatives have significantly increased farmers’ income during the last five years.

COMMERCIALIZATION OF CoEs FOR FRUITS AND VEGETABLES

Posted On: 08 AUG 2025 4:55PM by PIB Delhi

The Union Government, under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH), provides support for setting up of Centres of Excellence (CoEs) for fruits and vegetables in collaboration with various stakeholders including bilateral partners. The Centres of Excellence (CoEs) in horticulture are established with the aim of serving as hubs for demonstration, training, and dissemination of the latest technologies in horticultural production by promoting capacity building, production and supply of planting material to potential farmers and adoption of new technologies in horticulture sector. The primary objective of CoEs is to transfer knowledge and practical skills to farmers, entrepreneurs, and extension workers, thereby enhancing productivity, quality, and sustainability in the horticulture sector. By showcasing modern innovations and providing hands-on training, CoEs play a vital role in bridging the gap between research and field-level adoption. This initiative promotes self-reliance of Centres of Excellence, encourages innovation and technology adaptation while also providing economic benefits to the farming communities. Government of India has entered into bilateral cooperation agreement with Israel, Netherlands, New Zealand for establishment of CoEs. Besides, CoEs are also established with technical assistance from Indian Research Institutes.

INDO-US TRADE DEAL IN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR

Posted On: 05 AUG 2025 4:45PM by PIB Delhi

India is actively involved in the discussions on the India-USA Bilateral Trade Agreement which aims at expanding trade and investment and deepening the U.S. - India trade relationship to promote growth that ensures fairness, national security and job creation, especially in labour intensive sector including agricultural products. The ongoing discussions are focussed on how to take an integrated approach to strengthen and deepen bilateral trade by mutually increasing market access, reducing tariff and non-tariff barriers, and deepening supply chain integration.

Further, the livelihood interests of our farmers and requirements of food security have always been paramount for the Government while negotiating trade agreements with our international partners including the US.

FARMERS BENEFITTED UNDER PRIME MINISTER DHAN-DHAANYA KRISHI YOJANA (PMDDKY)

Posted On: 05 AUG 2025 4:45PM by PIB Delhi

The Union Cabinet approved the Prime Minister Dhan-Dhaanya Krishi Yojana (PMDDKY) on 16th July, 2025 for a period of six years, beginning with 2025-26. The scheme aims to enhance agricultural productivity, increase adoption of crop diversification and sustainable agricultural practices, augment post-harvest storage at the panchayat and block levels, improve irrigation facilities and facilitate availability of long-term and short-term credit. The Scheme will be implemented through convergence of 36 existing schemes across 11 Departments, other State schemes and local partnerships with the private sector. 

The Dhan Dhaanya Krishi Yojana districts’ plans will assess local gaps in agri-infrastructure including warehouses, cold storage, and farm-gate processing units. The gaps will be addressed by convergence of appropriate schemes.

Soil Health Cards

Posted On: 05 AUG 2025 4:43PM by PIB Delhi

Since, inception of the scheme in 2015, 152.51 lakh Soil Health Cards (SHCs) have been issued to farmers in Tamil Nadu under the Soil Health & Fertility Scheme (as on 30.06.2025).

State Government has informed that SHCs are distributed to farmers including small and marginal farmers as per citizen charter to ensure timely delivery. The advisories are issued to farmers through Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) officials, Krishi Sakhis, & Mobile Soil Testing Laboratory (MSTL) Van Campaigns. In every village, the ATMA officials conduct training under various scheme & advisories about SHC is kept mandatory. The MSTL van visits villages to collect soil samples undertake sample testing, provide soil health card & issue advisories to farmers instantly. Apart from this, in every block, Village Level Agricultural Development Group issues SHC advisories to farmers in Pre Kharif & Pre Rabi season. No major region-specific soil health challenges are faced in implementation of the scheme. However, in some region, pockets of problematic soils had been identified & advisories were given for reclamation of problem soils.

To ensure accuracy in soil testing, the Government of Tamil Nadu has undergone for National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) Recognition process. As a result, 36 Static labs have received NABL Recognition certificate. Government has allowed upgradation of the existing soil testing infrastructure with Atomic Absorption Spectrometer (AAS)/ Inductively Coupled Plasma Spectrophotometer (ICP) under the scheme. Soil Lab registry has been created online on SHC Portal as digital integration. Test results are uploaded on SHC Portal to generate Soil Health card digitally.

FARMER ID FOR PM KISAN SAMMAN NIDHI

Posted On: 05 AUG 2025 4:42PM by PIB Delhi

The PM-KISAN scheme is a central sector scheme launched in February 2019 by the Hon’ble Prime Minister to supplement the financial needs of farmers with cultivable land-holding. Under the scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000/- per year is transferred in three equal instalments, into the Aadhaar seeded bank accounts of farmers through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. Under the PM-KISAN Scheme, cultivable landholding is primary eligibility criteria to receive benefit of the Scheme subject to some certain exclusions relating to higher income status.

A farmer-centric digital infrastructure has ensured the benefits of the scheme reach all the farmers across the country without involvement of any intermediaries. Maintaining absolute transparency in registering and verifying beneficiaries, the Government of India has disbursed over Rs 3.90 lakh Cr. through 20 installments since inception of the Scheme. The Farmer ID has now been made mandatory in 14 States for new registrations under PM-KISAN.

Government has enabled different modes of enrollment of farmers in creation of State Farmers Registry. The States have created mechanisms such as Self registration, CSC mode, Operator mode (including State Agriculture and Revenue officials at field level) and Sahayak mode. To address concerns if any, during the registration of farmers the State Governments are using the above modes to raise concerns, with local administrations at District levels, for which technical provisions have been made for authorised officials at field level.

Currently, there is no proposal under consideration to increase the benefit amount under the PM Kisan Scheme.

AADHAAR SEEDING FOR PM-KISAN SCHEME

Posted On: 05 AUG 2025 4:40PM by PIB Delhi

The PM-KISAN scheme is a central sector scheme launched in February 2019 by the Hon’ble Prime Minister to supplement the financial needs of farmers with cultivable land-holding. Under the scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000/- per year is transferred in three equal instalments, into the Aadhaar seeded bank accounts of farmers through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. Under the PM-KISAN Scheme, cultivable landholding is primary eligibility criteria to receive benefit of the Scheme subject to some certain exclusions relating to higher income status.

A farmer-centric digital infrastructure has ensured the benefits of the scheme reach all the farmers across the country without involvement of any intermediaries. Maintaining absolute transparency in registering and verifying beneficiaries, the Government of India has disbursed over Rs 3.90 lakh Cr. through 20 installments since inception of the Scheme.

Benefits of the scheme are transferred to the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode, based on the verified data received from the States/UTs on the PM-KISAN portal. To ease the registration process for farmers and bring in transparency and efficiency in implementation of the Scheme, several technological interventions were introduced, including integration with PFMS, UIDAI, and the Income Tax Department. Further, land seeding was made mandatory along with Aadhaar based payment and e-KYC. All of this ensures that the benefit of the Scheme reach farmers seamlessly. In case of any discrepancy in data, the record is sent back to State/UT for correction and on receipt of the corrected data, the benefits are released immediately with the upcoming release.

To ensure that the benefits of the scheme reach the beneficiaries successfully, Aadhaar-based payment has been made mandatory for release of benefits under PM-KISAN from the 13th instalment (December 2022 – March 2023). This ensures that the benefits of the scheme are transferred to the Aadhaar-linked account of the beneficiary. This eliminates the problem of account-based payment, which was prone to data entry errors and changes in account details due to bank mergers. As a result, the 19th instalment witnessed a transaction success rate of 99.92%.

If any failed transaction still occurs, it is reprocessed from time to time. The major reasons for transaction failure are de-seeding of Aadhaar number from NPCI mapper by the bank, non-mapping of Aadhaar to account number, and account closure. In such cases, farmers and the concerned State/UT are notified for error correction and pending action from their end. As soon as the error is corrected, the benefits are released immediately with the upcoming release.

To ensure the prompt resolution of issues faced by the farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme, following grievance redressal mechanisms are in place:

CPGRAMS portal

PM KISAN portal

Physical receipts and emails

To further enhance grievance redressal, the AI-based Kisan eMitra Chatbot was launched in September 2023. This Chatbot provides quick, accurate, and clear responses to farmers' queries round the clock in their native languages, making the system more accessible and user-friendly. It is accessible on all platforms such as web, mobile, etc. The Kisan eMitra Chatbot currently operates in 11 languages—English, Hindi, Odia, Tamil, Bengali, Malayalam, Gujarati, Punjabi, Kannada, Telugu, and Marathi—and has successfully resolved over 95 lakh queries from 53 lakh farmers as on 15.07.2025.

TOBACCO PROCESSING AND VALUE-ADDITION INFRASTRUCTURE

Posted On: 05 AUG 2025 4:37PM by PIB Delhi

The Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare is not implementing any programme / scheme for promotion of tobacco/tobacco cultivation in the country.

The Tobacco Board under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is mandated to regulate production and marketing of Flue cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco. The Board as per its mandate plans the FCV tobacco crop size, a season ahead and regulates its production. Subsequently, Tobacco Board conducts e-auctions for ensuring fair and remunerative prices to farmers and assured supply of tobacco to traders.

The Tobacco Board does not directly deal with farm-to-factory linkages to ensure higher returns for tobacco farmers by promoting value-added tobacco production. However, the Board has taken measures to improve its marketability in line with the international customer requirements thereby ensuring the realization of the better prices for the FCV tobacco produced by the farmers. Further, the Board has also taken necessary measures to protect the farmers from global price volatility to ensure the price stability. Due to focused efforts, the FCV tobacco farmers were able to increase their income since 2020-21 and the export revenue also more than doubled during this period. The farmer prices (average) for their FCV tobacco produce increased from Rs. 135.24 per kg in 2020-21 to Rs. 279.54 per kg in 2023-24. The value of export of tobacco and tobacco products also increased from Rs. 6,496.99 Crore in 2020-21 to Rs. 16,728.02 Crore in 2024-25.

Further, ICAR-National Institute for Research on Commercial Agriculture (NIRCA), Rajahmundry is involved in research through varietal development, production & protection technologies and leaf quality in different types of tobaccos grown in different climatic zones of India. ICAR-NIRCA is actively disseminating technologies and good agricultural practices to farmers.

DATA ON MSP AND FARMER’S INCOME

Posted On: 05 AUG 2025 4:36PM by PIB Delhi

Every year Government fixes Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for 22 mandated agricultural crops for the country as a whole and not region or state-specific, based on the recommendations of Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP), after considering the views of State Governments and Central Ministries/Departments concerned. The details of Minimum Support Price (MSP) for 22 mandated agricultural crops for the Marketing Season 2025-26 are given at Annexure.

Government of India supplements the efforts of States through appropriate policy measures and budgetary support and various schemes/ programmers. The Government has substantially enhanced the budget allocation of Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (DA&FW) from Rs. 21,933.50 crore during 2013-14 to Rs. 1,27,290.16 crore in 2025-26.

The important initiatives of the Government of India meant for the Welfare of farmers, remunerative returns and income support to farmers are given below.

After budget announcement in 2018-19, Government had fixed MSP of 22 mandated crops at level of at least one and half times of the cost of production.

Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN)

Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana (PM-KMY)

Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY)/ Restructured Weather Based Crop   Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS)

Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS)

Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF)

Formation and Promotion of 10,000 new Farmer Producers Organizations (FPOs)

National Bee Keeping and Honey Mission (NBHM)

Namo Drone Didi

National Mission on Natural Farming (NMNF)

Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay SanraksHan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA)

Agri Fund for Start-Ups & Rural Enterprises’ (AgriSURE)

Per Drop More Crop (PDMC)

Sub-Mission on Agriculture Mechanization (SMAM)

Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY)

Soil Health & Fertility (SH&F)

Rainfed Area Development (RAD)

Agroforestry

Crop Diversification Programme (CDP)

Sub-Mission on Agriculture Extension (SMAE)

Sub-Mission on Seed and Planting Material (SMSP)

National Food Security and Nutrition Mission (NFSNM)

Integrated Scheme for Agriculture Marketing (ISAM)

Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH)

National Mission on Edible Oils (NMEO)-Oil Palm

National Mission on Edible Oils (NMEO)-Oilseeds

Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region

Digital Agriculture Mission

National Bamboo Mission

New national agriculture policy

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:39PM by PIB Delhi

Ministry has identified following integrated strategy for comprehensive growth of agriculture sector:

(i)    Increase crop production/ productivity

(ii)   Reduce cost of production

(iii)  Remunerative prices for farmer’s produce to enhance their incomes.

(iv) Agricultural diversification

(v)   Developing post-harvest value addition infrastructure.

(vi)  Adaptation to climate change for sustainable agriculture and mitigate against crop losses

The Gross Value Added (GVA) agricultural growth rate in Agriculture & allied sector in 2024-25 over 2023-24 is 4.6%, as per provisional estimate of Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.

Agriculture is a state subject. India is a diverse country, with varying agro-climatic conditions, challenges and agricultural practices. Various schemes of Government of India to support States are within the ambit of the overarching national policies. The country’s domestic market is very large. Self-sufficiency is not simply, an economic consideration, but also has geo political implications.

The existing policy framework and schemes of Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare address the current challenges such as climate change, enhancing exports, global price volatility, agri-trade competitiveness while enhancing farmers income.

MEASURES TO PROVIDE REMUNERATIVE PRICE FOR AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:37PM by PIB Delhi

Every year, Government fixes Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for 22 mandated agricultural crops for the country as a whole based on the recommendations of Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP), after considering the views of State Governments and Central Ministries/Departments concerned.

Increased MSP has benefited farmers which are evident from data of procurement and MSP amount paid to the farmers. The details of procurement and MSP amount paid to farmers during last three years including current year are given at Annexure.

Agriculture is a state subject & all the centrally sponsored schemes are implemented through States/ UTs concerned. Government of India supports the States through appropriate policy measures and budgetary allocation for schemes for farmers welfare.

For benefits of farmers, Government has taken several initiatives which include following:

 (i)  Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN)

(ii)  Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY)/Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS)

(iii)  Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana (PM-KMY)

(iv) Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF)

(v)  Formation and Promotion of 10,000 Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs)

(vi) Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA)

(vii) Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS)

(viii)     National Bee Keeping and Honey Mission (NBHM)

(ix)   Agri Fund for Start-Ups & Rural Enterprises' (AgriSURE)

(x)    National Mission on Natural Farming

(xi)   Krishonnati Yojana

(xii)Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY)

The Union Budget for 2018-19 had announced the pre-determined principle to keep MSPs at levels of one and half times of the cost of production. Accordingly, Government had increased MSPs for all mandated Kharif, Rabi and other Commercial crops with a minimum return of 50 percent over all India weighted average cost of production from year 2018-19 onwards which benefitted farmers of whole country.

PROVISION UNDER NPFAM

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:36PM by PIB Delhi

Agriculture Marketing is a state subject. Different States have established the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) as per local needs to support farmers, including small and marginal farmers.

Every year, Government fixes Minimum Support Price (MSP) for 22 mandated agricultural crops, based on the recommendations of Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP), after considering the views of State Governments and Central Ministries/Departments concerned. Government had increased MSP for all mandated Kharif, Rabi and other Commercial crops with a minimum return of 50 percent over all India weighted average cost of production from year 2018-19 onwards. During 2014-15 to 2024-25 (upto 30.06.2025) Government has procured 315.19 LMT agricultural produce (oil seeds, pulses and Copera) in respect of worth Rs.1,69,980.90 crore from farmers. Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay SanraksHan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA) is also being implemented to ensure remunerative prices for farmers, particularly for pulses, oilseeds and copra, through the scheme components of Price Support System (PSS) and Price Deficiency Payment System (PDPS).

IMPACT OF NAMO DRONE DIDI SCHEME ON RURAL WOMEN

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:35PM by PIB Delhi

Namo Drone Didi has been approved by the Government as Central Sector Scheme for providing drones to the Women Self Help Groups (SHGs) with an outlay of Rs. 1261 Crores for the period from 2023-24 to 2025-26.  The major objectives of the scheme are to promote advance technology in agriculture for improved efficiency, enhanced crop yield & reduced cost of operation and to empower SHGs as drone service providers for increasing their income and providing livelihood support to them. Lead Fertilizer Companies (LFCs) have distributed 1094 drones to drone didis of SHGs in 2023-24 using their internal resources. Out of these 1094 drones, 500 drones have been distributed under the Namo Drone Didi Scheme. As per the information provided by the Department of Fertilizers, the drones supplied by the LFCs are being used for application of Nano Fertilizers and the State-wise details are placed at Annexure –I.

Agricultural Development and Rural Transformation Centre (ADRTC), Bangalore have carried out a study on economics and business viability of drone operations on these 500 drones provided by LFCs under Namo Drone Didi scheme. The study indicates that the SHGs earlier were primarily engaged in agriculture and allied activities and the drones provided to them has expanded their niche to modern agricultural practices through drone technology, enhancing their efficiency and productivity. Overall, the adoption of drones has diversified SHG activities, improved agricultural practices, and increased income opportunities for women in rural communities.

SPACE TECHNOLOGY IN AGRICULTURE

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:35PM by PIB Delhi

Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare is using space technology for the various activities which include FASAL project (Forecasting Agricultural output using Space, Agro-meteorology and Land based observations), Drought Monitoring and providing technological support to Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY).

Under FASAL project, crop production forecasting for major crops namely rice, wheat, tur, rapeseed & mustard, rabi, jowar, cotton, jute, sugarcane, soybean, lentil & gram are being carried out.

For the Drought Monitoring, Department has developed a Geoportal in collaboration with SAC (ISRO), Ahmedabad. The portal hosts data of multiple drought indicators related to rainfall, soil moisture, remote sensing-based crop condition, water storages, etc.

Space technology is also being used for various operational applications under PMFBY, such as Smart Sampling for Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs), yield estimation & dispute resolution (area and yield).

Further, government has developed a Krishi Decision Support System (Krishi-DSS) which is a cloud based Geo-spatial platform that leverages space technology to empower various stakeholders in the agriculture sector. Krishi-DSS platform hosts a variety of datasets, including weather data, Satellite images, Soil layers, Water related data and field information. Krishi-DSS offers variety of modules/algorithms to support agricultural management and decision-making.

The Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare has conducted pilot studies using space technology for yield estimation by engaging various Government and Private Agencies between 2019-23. Various technologies viz., Satellite, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), Simulation models, and Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning (AI/ML) techniques were used in the study to derive the yield estimates at Gram Panchayat (GP) level. Based on the finding of pilot studies, Technology based GP level yield estimation had been rolled out for paddy & wheat crop from kharif 2023 and soybean crop from kharif 2024 under the YESTECH (Yield Estimation System using Technology) initiative of PMFBY for the timely and transparent claim settlement to the farmers.

AUTOMATION OF CROP LOSS ASSESSMENT THROUGH CROPIC

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:34PM by PIB Delhi

CROPIC (Collection of Real Time Observations and Photographs of Crops), one of the technology initiatives under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), is a digital application for collection of crop field photographs, to ascertain the health of crops and identify damage due to perils.  CROPIC app aims at collection of geotagged crowdsourced photographs from farmers and field coordinators through smartphones. The purpose of time-series geotagged photographs is cropping validation against insured crops, and crop damage assessment in case of localized calamities. 

CROPIC is envisaged to empower crop insurance stakeholders with a transparent, real-time, evidence-based system for monitoring and managing crops, strengthening the effectiveness of crop insurance and disaster response, and ensuring data-driven policy decisions.  However, there is no proposal under consideration to make available public dashboard on CROPIC data.

Further, a Krishi Rakshak Portal and Helpline (KRPH) has been deployed with a single Pan-India toll free number 14447 and linked to the insurance companies database, where farmers can raise their grievances/issues.  Timelines to resolve these grievances has also been fixed. 

ENHANCEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER NATIONAL MISSION ON EDIBLE OILS – OIL PALM (NMEO-OP)

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:33PM by PIB Delhi

Under the National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP), financial assistance is being extended to oil palm farmers across the country, including Odisha, for various components such as planting material, maintenance/management, intercropping in oil palm fields, installation of drip irrigation systems, machinery support, and replanting of old gardens. In addition, a price assurance mechanism in the form of Viability Gap Payment (VGP) has been introduced to safeguard farmers against price fluctuations and ensure remunerative returns

PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION UNDER PRADHAN MANTRI FASAL BIMA YOJANA

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:33PM by PIB Delhi

Since its inception in 2016 till 2024-25, as on 30.06.2025, 78.407 Crore Farmer Applications have been insured under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. Out of these applications, 22.667 Crore farmers received claims totalling to Rs. 1.83 lakh Crores for the same period.

Government has taken various steps to strengthen implementation of this scheme, bring transparency and ensure timely settlement of claims, such as:

Development of National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP) as a single source of data ensuring subsidy payment, co-ordination, transparency, dissemination of information and delivery of services including direct online enrolment of farmers, uploading/obtaining individual insured famer’s details for better monitoring and to ensure transfer of claim amount electronically to the individual farmer’s Bank Account. 

In order to rigorously monitor claim disbursal process, a dedicated module namely ‘Digiclaim Module’ has been operationalized for payment of claims from Kharif 2022 onwards.  It involves integration of National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP) with Public Finance Management System (PFMS) and accounting system of Insurance Companies.  

Delinking of Central Government share of premium subsidy from that of State Governments has been implemented so that farmers can get proportionate claims relating to the Central Government share.

Opening of ESCROW Account by the State Government concerned for deposit of their premium share in advance as per provisions of the scheme has been made mandatory w.e.f. Kharif 2025 season. 

Also, towards leveraging technology in implementation of the scheme, various steps like capturing of yield data/Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs) data through CCE-Agri App & uploading it on the NCIP, allowing insurance companies to witness the conduct of CCEs, integration of State land records with NCIP etc. have already been taken to improve timely settlement of the claims to farmers.

Provision of 12% penalty on delay in payment of claims by insurance company is auto calculated on National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP).

 Both Public Sector and Private Insurance Companies have been involved to increase the coverage of farmers especially non-loanee farmers and to bring more competition in crop insurance sector so as to provide the best services to farmers at competitive rates. Due to increased competition, actuarial/bidded premium rates have also decreased.  As compared to erstwhile crop insurance schemes, coverage of farmer applications has increased from 371 lakhs in 2014-15 to 1510 lakhs in 2024-25.  Number of non-loanee farmer applications has also increased from 20 lakhs in 2014-15 to 522 lakhs in 2024-25.

CAMPAIGN FOR ENSURING QUALITY OF FERTILIZERS

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:32PM by PIB Delhi

Government of India has issued instructions/directives to States to launch a campaign to ensure the quality of fertilizers. The objective of the campaign is to ensure available quality inputs to the farmers in adequate quantity.The Government supplies adequate quantities of fertilizer to the States/UTs based on the assessment conducted by Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare.It is the responsibility of the States to ensure that adequate fertilizers are available to farmers at the right place and at the location where it is required.

The Fertilizers Control Order (FCO),1985 strictly prohibits the manufacture /import/sale of any fertiliser which are not of the prescribed standards. State Governments are empowered under FCO to take strict legal action against the offenders. State Governments are regularly monitoring the manufacture and sale of fertilizers, through inspections and sample collection, to check spurious and substandard products.

The Government is regularly monitoring the enforcement action taken by State Governments. During the period April, 2025 to 25th July, 2025, numerous raids have been conducted across the country with 5,302 show cause notices issued, 2,172 licenses suspended/cancelled and 170 FIRs registered against defaulters.

IMPACT OF FARMER WELFARE SCHEMES ON FINANCIAL STABILITY

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:31PM by PIB Delhi

Every year, Government fixes Minimum Support Price (MSP) for 22 mandated agricultural crops, based on the recommendations of Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP), after considering the views of State Governments and Central Ministries/Departments concerned. Increased MSP has benefitted farmers which are evident from the details of procurement, MSP amount paid to farmers and number of farmers benefitted during 2024-25 (up to June 2025) given below.

The details of achievement under PM-KISAN, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and Kisan Credit Card (KCC) are given below.

Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme is a central sector scheme launched in February 2019 to supplement the financial needs of land-holding farmers. Under the scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000/- per year is transferred in three equal installments, into the Aadhaar seeded bank accounts of farmers through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. Maintaining absolute transparency in registering and verifying beneficiaries, the Government of India has disbursed over Rs 3.69 lakh Crore through 19 installments since inception.

The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (PMFBY) was introduced in the country from Kharif 2016 season. The scheme provides financial support to farmers suffering crop loss/damage arising out of natural calamities, adverse weather incidence and to stabilize the income of farmers etc. Since inception of the scheme in 2016, farmers paid a total premium of Rs 35,753 Crore Rupees and have received claims of Rs 1.83 lakh Crore Rupees (as on 30.06.2025), which is roughly 5 times the farmers premium paid during the same period.

The Kisan Credit Card (KCC): The government is implementing a 100% centrally funded Central Sector Scheme known as the Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS) across various States and UTs in India. This scheme aims to provide concessional interest rates on short-term agricultural loans obtained by farmers through Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) for their working capital requirements. The details disbursement of funds under Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS) during the last five years is given below:

The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) is a Central Sector Scheme launched by the Government of India in 2020 under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, with the objective of mobilizing a medium to long-term debt financing facility for investment in viable post-harvest management and community farming assets. The Scheme aims to drive growth and modernization in the agriculture sector by addressing the existing gaps in post-harvest management infrastructure in the country. Under AIF, provision for Rs. 1 Lakh crore loan has been made through lending institutions with interest rate cap of 9% on loans. The Scheme target of Rs 1 lakh crore has been tentatively allocated to all the States and UTs on the basis of the ratio of total value of output of Agriculture and Allied sectors of respective States/UTs.

As on 30th June 2025, Rs. 66,310 crore have been sanctioned for 1,13,419 projects under AIF. These sanctioned projects have mobilized an investment of Rs.107,502 Crore in the agriculture sector. Major projects sanctioned under AIF include 30,202 custom hiring centres, 22,827 processing units, 15,982 warehouses, 3,703 sorting & grading units, 2,454 cold store projects, around 38,251 other kinds of post-harvest management projects and viable farming assets.

PROGRAMME TO IMPROVE SOIL HEALTH

Posted On: 01 AUG 2025 4:30PM by PIB Delhi

Soil Health & Fertility Scheme is implemented by Government since 2015. Under the scheme, Soil Health Cards (SHCs) are issued to farmers to improve the health of the soil. SHCs encourage judicious use of fertilizer including secondary and micro nutrients in conjunction with organic manures & bio-fertilizers.

25.17 Crore Soil Health Cards have been issued since inception of Soil Health & Fertility Scheme (as on 24.07.2025) to farmers. SHCs provide information on nutrient status of soil and recommendation on appropriate dosage of nutrients to be applied for improving soil health & fertility. Advisory are given to farmers through Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA), Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Krishi Sakhi etc.

Till date, 6.8 lakh demonstrations, 93,781 farmer’s training programmes and 7,425 farmer’s mela have been organized across the country to educate farmers regarding proper use of fertilizers as per recommendation of Soil Health Card to improve soil quality.

Instructions to States to launch a campaign for ensuring fertilizer quality

Posted On: 13 JUL 2025 1:11PM by PIB Delhi

The Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India, has written to the Chief Ministers of all States and Union Territories, directing immediate and strict action against the issue of counterfeit and substandard fertilizers. This letter has been issued with the objective of curbing the sale of fake fertilizers, black marketing of subsidized fertilizers, and illegal activities such as forced tagging across the country.

In the letter, the Union Minister emphasized that agriculture is the backbone of India’s economy, and to ensure stability in farmers’ income, it is essential to provide them with quality fertilizers at the right time, at affordable prices, and of standard quality.

He also highlighted that the sale of counterfeit or substandard fertilizers is prohibited under the Fertilizer (Control) Order, 1985, which falls under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.

The Union Minister issued the following directions to the States:

It is the responsibility of the States to ensure adequate availability of fertilizers at the right places and locations where it is required. Therefore, States must strictly monitor and take swift action against activities such as black marketing, overpricing, and diversion of subsidized fertilizers.

Regular monitoring of fertilizer production and sale, as well as strict control over counterfeit and substandard products through sampling and testing, must be carried out.

Forced tagging of nano-fertilizers or bio-stimulant products along with conventional fertilizers should be stopped immediately.

Strict legal action, including cancellation of licenses and registration of FIRs, should be taken against the culprits, and effective prosecution must be ensured to secure conviction.

States have been directed to develop feedback and information systems to involve farmers/farmer groups in the monitoring process and to make special efforts to educate farmers on identifying genuine and counterfeit products.

The Minister urged all States to launch a statewide campaign in accordance with the above directions to eliminate the problem of fake and substandard agricultural inputs from its roots. He further stated that regular monitoring of this work at the State level would lead to an effective and sustainable solution in the interest of farmers.

Cabinet approves the Prime Minister Dhan-Dhaanya Krishi Yojana

Posted On: 16 JUL 2025 2:48PM by PIB Delhi

The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today approved the “Prime Minister Dhan-Dhaanya Krishi Yojana” for a period of six years, beginning with 2025-26 to cover 100 districts. Prime Minister Dhan-Dhaanya Krishi Yojana draws inspiration from NITI Aayog’s Aspirational District Programme and first of its kind focusing exclusively on agriculture and allied sectors.

The Scheme aims to enhance agricultural productivity, increase adoption of crop diversification and sustainable agricultural practices, augment post-harvest storage at the panchayat and block levels, improve irrigation facilities and facilitate availability of long-term and short-term credit. It is in pursuance of Budget announcement for 2025-26 to develop 100 districts under “Prime Minister Dhan-Dhaanya Krishi Yojana”. The Scheme will be implemented through convergence of 36 existing schemes across 11 Departments, other State schemes and local partnerships with the private sector.

 100 districts will be identified based on three key indicators of low productivity, low cropping intensity, and less credit disbursement. The number of districts in each state/UT will be based on the share of Net Cropped Area and operational holdings. However, a minimum of 1 district will be selected from each state.

 Committees will be formed at District, State and National level for effective planning, implementation and monitoring of the Scheme. A District Agriculture and Allied Activities Plan will be finalized by the District Dhan Dhaanya Samiti, which will also have progressive farmers as members. The District Plans will be aligned to the national goals of crop diversification, conservation of water and soil health, self-sufficiency in agriculture and allied sectors as well as expansion of natural and organic farming. Progress of the Scheme in each Dhan-Dhaanya district will be monitored on 117 key Performance Indicators through a dashboard on monthly basis. NITI will also review and guide the district plans. Besides Central Nodal Officers appointed for each district will also review the scheme on a regular basis.

 As the targeted outcomes in these 100 districts will improve, the overall average against key performance indicators will rise for the country. The scheme will result in higher productivity, value addition in agriculture and allied sector, local livelihood creation and hence increase domestic production and achieving self-reliance (Atmanirbhar Bharat). As the indicators of these 100 districts improve, the national indicators will automatically show an upward trajectory.

Sale of Pesticide and Agrochemicals to Farmers

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 5:58PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India regulates the manufacture, sale and the use of pesticides in the country through comprehensive legislation known as Insecticides Act, 1968 and Insecticides Rules, 1971 and pesticides are allowed for use in the country only after ensuring the efficacy and safety of the pesticides to prevent risk to human beings or animals or environment and for matters connected therewith. Further, all the manufacturers including multinational companies are mandated to prescribe the details of doses, crops, usage instructions, toxicity triangle, safety pictograms, precautionary measures, antidotes etc. on Label and Leaflets of pesticides for the benefit of farmers.

Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare through its Central Integrated Pest Management Centers (CIPMCs), Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and State Agriculture Departments, undertakes various training programs to educate farmers, state agriculture extension workers, and pesticide dealers on the use of pesticides according to their label claim, safe handling practices of pesticides and the use of Protective clothing such as protective outer garment/overalls/hood/hat, hand gloves, eye goggles, nose masks and boots to protect the farmers from the adverse effects of pesticides on their health.

Agricultural Research and Technology Collaboration with in BRICS Framework

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 5:58PM by PIB Delhi

The Government of India (GoI) has actively contributed to agricultural research and cooperation within the BRICS framework through a multifaceted approach aimed at enhancing food security, promoting sustainable agricultural practices, and facilitating knowledge exchange amongst the member countries.

India, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and associated research institutions such as the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), is at the forefront in sharing innovations and best practices in areas including climate-resilient agriculture, crop diversification, soil health management, and precision farming.

Under the aegis of the BRICS Agricultural Research Platform (BRICS-ARP) launched during India’s BRICS Presidency in 2021, the GoI has facilitated the pooling of research capacities and the exchange of scientific expertise. This platform serves as a virtual network of research institutions across BRICS countries, supporting joint projects, pilot initiatives, and training programmes.

ICAR has recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA), Brazil, in July 2025, which includes the areas of cooperation on developing the climate resilient yielding crops of Soyabean.

The Government of India has undertaken various initiatives aimed at promoting agricultural exports and strengthening processing infrastructure, with a view to leveraging global partnerships and expanding international market opportunities. The Agriculture Export Policy outlines broad strategies for addressing supply chain challenges, promoting product diversification, and improving logistics and storage infrastructure, including cold chains, to reduce post-harvest losses.

India’s diplomatic missions have been engaged in facilitating agri-export promotion through buyer-seller meets and trade dialogues. Commodity Boards like the Coffee Board and Tea Board are also involved in overseas promotional efforts for key export commodities, in coordination with exporters and trade bodies.

Support has also been extended towards enabling exporters to align with international sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) standards and technical regulations. Measures such as the adoption of the e-Phyto certification system have been used to streamline the exchange of SPS certificates and improve transparency and efficiency in compliance.

To support value addition and branding in exports, certain measures have been undertaken, including: Development of sea protocols for perishable produce, Improvements in packaging and traceability, promotion of certification systems such as Good Agricultural Practices (GAP), Assistance in obtaining international quality and safety certifications, Training and capacity building at the farmer and exporter levels.

India has also participated in global trade events like BIOFACH, Gulfood, AAHAR, Organic and Natural Products Expo, and Indus Food to explore export promotion avenues and showcase Indian agri-products to a wider global audience.

Platforms such as World Food India have been positioned as opportunities to facilitate investor engagement and enhance international exposure for Indian food processing enterprises.

Additionally, bilateral engagements, including through Joint Working Groups (JWGs) with select partner countries, aimed to collaborate in areas such as food processing technology, cold chain solutions, automation, food park development, and institutional partnerships.

On the infrastructure front, schemes such as the Agro-Processing Cluster Scheme, Integrated Cold Chain Scheme, and other initiatives for the creation or modernization of food processing and preservation capacities have been introduced to encourage investment and improve the competitiveness of Indian agricultural products in the global market.

National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:01PM by PIB Delhi

Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has released a total of 2900 varieties during last 10 years (2014-2024), out of which, 2661 varieties are tolerant to one or more biotic and/or abiotic stresses.  Under National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) project, 298 climate resilient varieties tolerant to drought/flood/ heat in 11 crops were demonstrated involving 11,835 farmers, across the 448 villages in 151 climatically vulnerable districts across the country. About 5278 tribal and smallholder farmers in 72 drought-prone districts under NICRA project received tolerant seeds of different crops for undertaking field demonstrations.

Government of India is implementing Sub Mission on Seeds and Planting Materials (SMSP) from the year 2014-15 to promote production and multiplication of quality seeds of agricultural crops to make availability of required quantities of seed to farmers across the country. SMSP has now been merged with National Food Security and Nutrition Mission (NFSNM) from 2023-24. During 2024-25, an amount of Rs. 270.90 crore was allocated under the seed scheme of SMSP (now merged with NFSNM) wherein   an amount of Rs. 206.86 crore had been released to the States/UTs out of which 141.46 crore has been provided under   Seed Village Programme.

Capacity building for establishing village level seed banks and community nurseries is being undertaken under NICRA project that enable availability of seeds in the adopted villages. Drought and flood tolerant climate-resilient varieties of rice, wheat, soybean, mustard, chickpea, sorghum, gram, and foxtail millet were demonstrated in several NICRA villages.  Besides, training programmes are   conducted under Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) on various issues of agricultural practices including the awareness of using quality seeds among the farmers.

To mitigate the impacts of adverse weather on agriculture, under the GraminKrishiMausamSewa (GKMS) scheme, medium range weather forecast for next 5 days at district and block are generated by IMD. Based on rainfall and other weather parameters along with weather forecasts issued by IMD, 130 Agromet Field Units prepare Agromet Advisories in English as well as in the regional language for dissemination through multiple channels. Also, farmers access weather information including alerts and related agromet advisories specific to their districts through the mobile App viz., ‘Meghdoot’ launched by the Ministry of Earth Sciences which is available in English and 13 regional languages. These weather details are also accessible to farmers through ‘Mausam’ App of IMD.The Panchayat-level weather forecast information is accessible through multiple digital platforms, including: eGramSwaraj (https://egramswaraj.gov.in/), ‘Gram Manchitra’ Application of MoPR (https://grammanchitra.gov.in/gm4MVC), ‘Meri Panchayat’ Mobile App and Mausamgram web portal of IMD

Farm Mechanization and Agricultural Workforce

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:02PM by PIB Delhi

The adoption of mechanization by the farmers of various States in India depends on varying factors such as socio-economic conditions, geographical conditions, crops grown, irrigation facilities etc.  As per the estimates of 2020-21 of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), agricultural mechanization level varies across different crops and their farm operation in the country. Overall, the operation-wise average mechanization levels across crops are 70% for seed-bed preparation, 40% for sowing/planting/transplanting, 33% for weeding and inter-culture, and 34% for harvesting and threshing, resulting in an overall average mechanization level of 45%.

The shift in workforce from primary (agriculture) sector to secondary and tertiary sectors is a normal phenomenon of the development process experienced by countries across the world and the same is true for India, as well. As per Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) conducted by National Statistics Office (NSO), Ministry of Statistics &Programme Implementation (MoSPI), the percentage of workers in the usual status engaged in agriculture and allied sector is given below:

Agricultural implements like hand tools and animal-driven tools are exempt from GST, while machinery for soil preparation and harvesting is taxed at 12%. Machines for cleaning and sorting agricultural produce are taxed at 18%.

Agriculture is a State subject and Government of India supports the efforts of States through appropriate policy measures, budgetary allocation and various schemes/ programmes. Various schemes implemented by Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare supports modemagricultural practices and technology adoption, boosting productivity, promotingdiversification into various agro-based sectors aiming to transform rural agriculture, enhancemarket access, and improve the livelihoods of farmers, encourages entrepreneurship amongfarmers, Farmers Producers Organization (FPOs), and start-ups for creating job opportunities.

The Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM) is implemented with the specific aim of increasing the reach of farm mechanization to small and marginal farmers and to the regions where availability of farm power is low   and promoting ‘Custom Hiring Centers (CHCs)’ to offset the adverse economies of scale arising due to small land holding and high cost of individual ownership of agricultural machines.  Under SMAM, in orderto make farm machinery more accessible and affordable to farmers, financial assistance @ 40-50% of the cost of machinery depending on the category of farmers is provided for purchase of agricultural machines.  With a view to make available machines and equipments to farmers on rental basis, financial assistance for establishment of CHCs of the project cost up to Rs. 250 lakhs is provided @ 40% of the project cost and financial assistance for establishments of Farm Machinery Banks (FMBs) of the project cost up to Rs. 30 Lakhs is provided @ 80% of the project cost. The rate of financial assistance for establishing FMBs in the North Eastern States is @ 95% of the project cost.

Support to Mango Farmers

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:03PM by PIB Delhi

The Production of mango, as per second advance estimate, during 2024-25 is expected to be 228.37 Lakh Metric Tonnes (LMT) in comparison to 223.98 LMT during 2023-24. The higher production is mainly on account of better production of processable varieties of mango particularly in Southern States.

To provide remunerative price to the farmers, Government implements Market Intervention Scheme(MIS), a component under Pradhan MantriAnnadataSanrakshanAbhiyan (PM-AASHA), for procurement of agricultural and horticultural commodities, which are perishable in nature and are not covered under the Price Support Scheme (PSS).The objective of intervention is to protect the growers of these commodities from making distress sale in the event of a bumper crop during the peak arrival period when the prices tend to fall below economic levels.The scheme is implemented at the request of a State/Union Territory (UT) government, which is ready to bear 50 percent of the loss (25 percent in case of North-Eastern States), if any, incurred on its implementation.

Government has introduced a new component of Price Differential Payment (PDP)under Market Intervention Scheme(MIS)from 2024-25 seasonfor direct payment of the price difference between the Market Intervention Price(MIP)and the selling price to the farmers of perishable crops.States/UTs have an option to choose either to do physical procurement of the crop or to make the differential payment between the MIP & Sale Price to the farmers.

Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare approvesprocurement of Mangoes at Market Intervention Price (MIP) under Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) on the request of States/UTs when the market prices fall below the MIP.

Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India also implements Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) which offers a holistic approach for development of horticulture crops including mango from Nursery Development, Production to Postharvest Management & Primary processing and Creation of Marketing Infrastructure etc. Assistance is also available from Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) and MIDH for establishment of accredited packhouses and infrastructures for promotion of export.

Further, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has dedicated organizations for researchand development related to mango viz. Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture, Indian Institute of Horticultural Research and Indian Agricultural Research Institute, which have developed near about a dozen of varieties for commercial cultivation in India. Currently, ICAR is also running 23 All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) Centre in mango. Along with ICAR, StateAgriculturalUniversities are also engaged in research work related to production, post-harvest management & value addition in mango. The existing institutional mechanism and programmes are sufficient for development of mango sector.

Small Farmer Welfare

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:04PM by PIB Delhi

As per the National Disaster Management Plan (NDMP), the primary responsibility of disaster management including damage assessment and providing relief measures on ground level, rests with the State Governments concerned. The Central Government provides requisite logistics and financial support to the efforts of the State Governments. The State Governments provide financial relief to the affected people in the event of 12 notified natural disasters, from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), already placed at its disposal, in accordance with approved items and norms of Government of India (GOI). However, in the event of disaster of a 'severe nature', additional financial assistance is extended from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), as per laid down procedure, which includes an assessment based on the visit of an Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT). The financial assistance provided under SDRF and NDRF is by way of relief and not for compensation.

The Government is implementing a 100% centrally funded Central Sector Scheme known as the Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS) across various States and UTs in pan India. This scheme provides concessional interest rates on short-term agricultural loans obtained by farmers through Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) for their working capital requirements.

Under this scheme, farmers receive KCC loans at a subsidized interest rate of 7%. To facilitate this, an up front interest subvention (IS) of 1.5% is provided to financial institutions. Additionally, farmers who repay their loans promptly receive a 3% Prompt Repayment Incentive (PRI), effectively reducing the interest rate to 4% per annum. To provide relief to the farmers on occurrence of natural calamities, the component of interest subvention is available on the restructured amount to banks for the first year and such restructured loans would attract normal rate of interest from the second year onwards as per the policy laid down by RBI. Interest subvention and prompt repayment incentive on restructured crop loans is also given to farmers affected by severe natural calamities for a maximum period of 5 years based on the report of Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) for grant of NDRF assistance and Sub-Committee of National Executive Committee (SC-NEC).

Keeping in view the overall inflation and rise in agriculture input cost over the years, it has been decided to raise the limit for collateral free agricultural loans including loans for allied activities from the existing level of Rs.1.6 lakh to Rs.2 lakh per borrower, effective from 1 January 2025.

The Government of India is implementing a Central Sector Scheme “Mass Media Support to Agriculture Extension” through DD Regional Kendra, DD Kisan and All India Radio to create awareness and dissemination of scheme benefits and advisories to farming community. Under the scheme, 18 DD Regional Kendras, 97 FM stations of AIR and DD Kisan are being utilized for wider publicity of department schemes, on-going initiatives, policy decisions, and advisories. In addition, "Audio-Visual spots are being used to broadcast and telecast information about the DA&FW schemes Doordarshan (DD), All India Radio (AIR) and private TV and radio channels as a part of ‘Focused Publicity and Awareness Campaign’. Besides, publicity & awareness is also carried out through Outdoor Publicity as well as through print advertisements in leading newspapers across the country. The social media platforms viz Facebook, X, Instagram, Threads, YouTube, LinkedIn, WhatsApp, Public App etc are also being used for better outreach and wider publicity about details of Farmers Welfare Schemes of the Department. 

Cold Storage Facilities for Perishable Crops

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:07PM by PIB Delhi

Government is implementing various schemes under which financial assistance is available for setting up of cold storage for perishable horticultural produce throughout the country.

Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare is implementing Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) under which financial assistance is provided for various horticulture activities including Construction/Expansion/ Modernization of cold storages of capacity up to 5000 MT in the country on the basis of Annual Action Plan (AAP) received from States/UTs. The component of Cold Storage is demand/entrepreneur driven for which Government assistance in the form of credit linked back ended subsidy is available at the rate of 35% of the project cost in general areas and 50% of the project cost in North Eastern & hilly States and scheduled areas through respective State Horticulture Missions.

Under the scheme, assistance is available for individuals, Groups of farmers/ growers/ consumers, Partnership/ Proprietary firms, Self Help Groups (SHGs), Farmers Producer Organization (FPOs), Companies, Corporations, Cooperatives, Cooperative Marketing Federations, Local bodies, Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) & Marketing Boards and State Governments.    

Besides, National Horticulture Board (NHB) is implementing a scheme namely “Capital Investment Subsidy for Construction/Expansion /Modernization of Cold Storages and Storages for Horticulture Products”. Under the scheme, credit linked back-ended subsidy at the rate of 35% of the capital cost of the project in general areas and 50% in case of North East, hilly & scheduled areas for construction/expansion/modernization of cold storage and Controlled Atmosphere (CA) storage of capacity above 5000 MT and up to 20000 MT is available.

Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) implements a Scheme for Integrated Cold Chain, Food Processing and Preservation Infrastructure as one of the components of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY) with the objective of reducing post-harvest losses of horticulture and non-horticulture produce and providing remunerative price to farmers for their produce. Under the scheme, Ministry provides financial assistance in the form of grant-in-aid at the rate of 35% for general areas and 50% for North East and Himalayan States, Integrated Tribal Development Programme (ITDP) areas and Islands for storage and transport infrastructure and at the rate of 50% and 75% respectively for value addition and processing infrastructure subject to a maximum grant-in-aid of Rs. 10.00 crore per project for setting up of integrated cold chain projects including irradiation facility. Standalone cold storages are not covered under the Scheme.

All the above schemes are demand/entrepreneur driven through commercial ventures for which government assistance is in the form of credit linked back ended subsidy/grant-in-aid and is provided based on the proposals received from the States/entrepreneur.

Further, to strengthen agriculture infrastructure in the country, Government has launched Agriculture Infrastructure Funds (AIF) of Rs. 1.00 lakh crore. Under AIF, there is provision for collateral free term loan upto Rs. 2.00 crore and interest subvention of 3% on the term loan availed for creation of post-harvest infrastructure including establishment of cold storages.

Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare is implementing a Central Sector Scheme i.e. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). PMFBY offers comprehensive risk coverage for crops from pre-sowing to post-harvest stages in areas notified by the State Governments. It safeguards farmers against losses due to widespread natural calamities such as floods, droughts, cyclones, hailstorms, and pest attacks, as well as localized risks like landslides, cloudbursts, and inundation. The scheme also covers post-harvest losses caused by events like unseasonal rains and cyclones, along with risks related to prevented sowing.

Further, the Government has taken several steps to make the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) more effective and farmer-friendly. These include introduction of technology-based tools like YES-Tech (Yield Estimation based on Technology) for yield estimation mechanism for Crop Loss assessment and Yield estimation, WINDS (Weather Information Network & Data System) to create a strong database of hyper-local weather to use for all farmer and farming oriented services, and the Digi-Claim Payment Module for real-time tracking of claims. In addition to that, AIDE (App for Intermediary Enrolment), a mobile app, has been launched for door-step enrolment of farmers, while the Krishi Rakshak portal and toll-free helpline (14447) enable easy grievance redressal. Operational Guidelines have been revised based on stakeholder feedback in 2018, 2022, and 2023. Additionally, IEC campaigns like Meri Policy Mere Hath and Fasal Bima Pathshala have been undertaken to increase awareness and transparency, ensuring financial protection and trust among farmers.

Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare is implementing Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) for promoting the organic farming in all the States/UTs except North Eastern States and Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region (MOVCDNER) for the North Eastern States. Both schemes stress on end-to-end support to farmers engaged in organic farming i.e. from production to processing, certification and marketing. Primary focus of the schemes is to form organic clusters, with preference to small and marginal farmers, to create a supply chain. Both the schemes are implemented through State/UT Governments.

Under PKVY, assistance of Rs. 31,500 per ha in 3 years is provided for promotion of organic farming. Out of this, assistance of Rs. 15,000 per ha is provided to farmers through Direct Benefit Transfer for on-farm/off-farm organic inputs including organic compost. Financial assistance of Rs. 4,500/ha for 3 years is provided for marketing, packaging, branding, value addition etc. Rs. 3,000/ha for 3 years is provide for certification and residue analysis. Assistance is also provided @ Rs. 9,000/ha for 3 years for training, awareness & capacity building.

Under MOVCDNER, assistance of Rs. 46,500 per ha in 3 years is provided for creation of Farmers Producer Organization, support to farmers for organic inputs etc. Out of this, assistance @ Rs. 32,500 per ha is provided to farmers for off-farm/on-farm organic inputs under the scheme including Rs. 15,000 as District Benefit Transfer to the farmers. Financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 per ha in 3 years is provided for activities of ICS management, training and certification (NPOP). Financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 per ha in 3 years is provided for value chain marketing at State level.  

There is no proposal under consideration to increase the financial assistance beyond what is presently provided under the two schemes of PKVY & MOVCDNER.

Implementation of National Mission on Natural Farming

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:08PM by PIB Delhi

The National Mission on Natural Farming (NMNF) is implemented in 15,000 natural farming clusters covering 7.5 Lakh Ha area across the country.  Each cluster is of contiguous areas of about 50 Ha and with approximately 125 farmers.

Scientists, Farmer Master Trainers (FMTs) and trained Community Resource Persons (CRPs) undertake awareness generation, training, on-field demonstration and provide continuous handholding support to farmers. For this, more than 3900 Scientists, FMTs & Government officials have been trained on Natural Farming and about 28,000 CRPs have been identified under the Mission. Also, 806 training institutions, i.e., KrishiVigyanKendras, Agricultural Universities and Local Natural Farming Institutions have been involved by States/UTs.

Till date 1,100 Natural Farming Model Farms have been developed in KrishiVigyanKendras, Agricultural Universities and on fields of practicing natural farming farmers for the training of Community Resource Persons and farmers.

An output based incentive of ₹4000/- per acre per year per farmer for 2 years (up to 1 acre per farmer) is provisioned in the scheme for farmers to practice natural farming, training, upkeep of livestock, preparation of natural farming inputs etc. Till date, more than 10 lakh farmers have been enrolled under the Mission.

Further, farmers are being supported by a simple certification system for increased market access. The Natural Farming Certification System is under implementation by National Centre for Organic & Natural Farming (NCONF), Ghaziabad under Participatory Guarantee System (PGS) - India.

An online portal (https://naturalfarming.dac.gov.in/) has been developed for real-time monitoring of the progress of implementation of NMNF.

A Bio-input Resource Centre (BRC) is a cluster level enterprise that provides ready to use Natural Farming bio-inputs to local farmers who may not themselves be making on-farm inputs. BRC will also disseminate knowledge, training and demonstration on these natural farming bio Inputs to farmers. BRCs identified are 7934, of which 2045 BRCs have been set up. BRCs may be set up by practicing natural farming farmers, Primary Agriculture Credit Society/ Farmer Producer Organizations, Self Help Groups, local rural entrepreneurs etc.

Initiatives to Promote Organic and Climate Smart Farming

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:10PM by PIB Delhi

Organic farming is being promoted through Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) in all the States/UTs except North Eastern States and Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region (MOVCDNER) for the North Eastern States. Both schemes stress on end-to-end support to farmers engaged in organic farming i.e. from production to processing, certification and marketing. Primary focus of the schemes is to form organic clusters, with preference to small and marginal farmers, to create a supply chain.  Both schemes are   also promoting natural resource based integrated and climate resilient sustainable farming systems, natural resource conservation and on-farm nutrient recycling. Both the schemes are implemented through States /UT Governments.

Under PKVY, assistance of Rs. 31,500 per ha in 3 years is provided for promotion of organic farming. Out of this, assistance of Rs. 15,000 per ha is provided to farmers through Direct Benefit Transfer for on- farm /off –farm organic inputs including organic compost.

Under MOVCDNER, assistance of Rs. 46,500/ha in 3 years is provided for creation of Farmers Producer Organizations, support to farmers for organic inputs etc. Out of this, assistance @ Rs. 32,500/ ha is provided to farmers for off -farm /on –farm organic inputs such as  bio-fertilizers, vermicompost, and organic pesticides including Rs. 15,000 as Direct Benefit Transfer to the farmers. Farmers can avail assistance for maximum 2 ha area under both the schemes.

Yield index based Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (PMFBY) and weather index based Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS) introduced in the country from Kharif 2016 season, is available for all States/UTs and is voluntary for the States as well as farmers. States/UTs are free to subscribe under the scheme keeping in view their risk perception and financial considerations etc. The PMFBY is designed to cover those crops where past yield data of requisite number of years based on Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs), is available and the State Government has the capacity to conduct requisite number of CCEs to assess the yield of the crop to calculate claims.

For the crops not meeting the aforesaid conditions, the concerned State Government is free to notify them for coverage under Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS) under which claims payment are structured on the basis of weather index parameters.

Under PKVY, financial assistance of Rs. 4,500/ha for 3 years is provided for marketing, packaging, branding, value addition etc. Rs. 3,000/ha in 3 years is provided for certification and residue analysis. Assistance is also provided @Rs. 9,000/ha in 3 years for training, awareness & capacity building. Under MOVCDNER, financial assistance of Rs 4000 per ha in 3 years is provided for value chain marketing at state level, financial assistance of Rs 10000 per ha in 3 years is provided for activities of ICS management, training and certification.

To ensure market linkage States organize seminars, workshops, buyer-seller meetings, exhibitions and organic festivals either within their own region or in key markets of other states. Additionally, Farmer Producer Organisations have been onboarded on GeM platform and Open Network for Digital Commerce for digital market linkage and e-commerce.

Goal of Doubling Farmers’ Income

Posted On: 22 JUL 2025 6:11PM by PIB Delhi

The Government has adopted the vision of Doubling Farmers lncome. An inter-ministerial committee was constituted on 13th April, 2016 to recommend comprehensive strategies for achieving the goal.

The Government of lndia has identified the following seven sources for enhancing growth of farmers: -

i. lncrease in crop productivity

ii. lncrease in livestock productivity

iii. Resource use efficiency - reduction in cost of production

iv. lncrease in cropping intensity

v. Diversification to high value agriculture

vi. Remunerative prices on farmers' produce

vii. Shift of surplus manpower from farm to non-farm occupations

To achieve the above seven objectives, Government of lndia supplements the efforts of States through appropriate policy measures and budgetary support and various schemes/ programmes. The Government has substantially enhanced the budget allocation of Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (DA&FW) from Rs. 21,933.50 crore during 2013-14 to Rs. 1,27,290.16 crore in 2025-26.

The various schemes/programmes of the Government of India are meant for the Welfare of farmers by increasing production, remunerative returns and income support to farmers is at Annexure.

 As per EU website (agriculture.ec.europa.eu), Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of European Union is linked to farmed area and conditionality for compliance with EU rules. Indian system is broad and inclusive, as per national priorities of farmers welfare and self sufficiency in food grains. Besides PM KisanSammanNidhi, Government fixes Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for mandated crops based on the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP) after considering the views of concerned State Governments and Central Ministries/ Departments. The Union Budget for 2018-19 had announced the pre-determined principle to keep MSPs at levels of one and half times of the cost of production.  Accordingly, Government had consistently increased MSPs for all mandated Kharif, Rabi and other Commercial crops with a minimum margin of 50 percent over all India weighted average cost of production from the year 2018-19 onwards.

Integrated Scheme of Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA) strengthens implementation of MSP and acts as a tool for market price stabilisation. PM-AASHA has components of Price Support Scheme (PSS), Price Deficit Payment Scheme (PDPS) and Market Intervention Scheme (MIS).  

PSS is implemented on the request of the State Govt./ UT that agrees to exempt from levy of Mandi tax on the procurement of notified pulses, oilseeds and copra and make arrangements like booking of scientific storage facility, identification of procurement centres, arrangement of gunny bags etc.. It is implemented within the stipulated period as and when the market prices of agricultural commodities fall below the notified MSP during peak harvesting period to provide the remunerative price to the farmers. From the procurement year 2024-25, the sanction for the procurement of notified Pulses, Oilseeds and Copra under PSS is given to the States/UTs initially upto a maximum of 25% of the production of the State for that particular season. Subsequently, if the State/UT achieves the overall procurement against sanctioned quantity and further intends to procure more beyond the sanctioned quantity, the proposal for the procurement under the PSS is considered upto a maximum of 25% of the national production. In order to incentivize the farmers contributing in enhancement of domestic production of pulses and to reduce the dependence on imports, the Government has allowed the procurement of Tur, Urad and Masur under PSS equivalent to 100% of the estimated production of the State till 2028-29.

PDPS envisages the direct payment of the price difference between the MSP and the selling / modal price in notified market upto 15% of MSP value (including 2% administrative cost) by the Central Government to the pre-registered farmers selling the oilseeds upto 40% of its production with prescribed Fair Average Quality (FAQ) in the notified market yard through a transparent auction process within the stipulated period. However, the States/UTs have the option to implement either PSS or PDPS for the notified oilseeds for the particular year/season. If any State is willing to cover quantities beyond 40%, it can do so from its resources.

MIS further enhances the diversity by supporting the perishable and horticulture crops that are not covered under above price stabilisation measures. MIS offers both physical as well as price difference payment along with a provision for storage and transportation of TOP (Tomato, Onion and Potato) crops.

This integrated approach leads to the prevention of distress sale by farmers, ensuring remunerative prices for their produce. It also facilitates the creation of buffer stock to address market volatility. Overall, these measures strengthen farmer confidence in market operations due to the assurance of price support.

 Precision farming enhances the productivity of agriculture, efficiency of water use and farmers income on sustainable basis without any adverse impact on environment. The crop yields are reported to increase substantially. Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) has provision for establishment of Centres of Excellence (CoEs) in public sector for demonstration of latest technologies, including precision farming. The technical support for these CoEs, for specific crops and technology is provided by research institutes and through bilateral cooperation with other countries.

Digital Agriculture Mission which enables a robust digital agriculture ecosystem in the country for driving innovative farmer-centric digital solutions and making available timely and reliable crop-related information to farmers. The Mission envisages the creation of Digital Public Infrastructure for Agriculture such as Agristack, Krishi Decision Support System, Comprehensive Soil Fertility & Profile Map, and other IT initiatives undertaken by Central Government/State Governments. Agristack project is one of the major components of this Mission, which consists of three foundational registries or databases in the agriculture sector, i.e., the Farmers' Registry, Geo-referenced village maps, and the Crop Sown Registry, all created and maintained by the State Governments/Union Territories. This system aims to enhance interoperability and convergence of efforts, fostering the development of applications in the agricultural sector using emerging digital technologies.

Under National e-Governance Plan in Agriculture (NeGPA) program, which is a component under Digital Agriculture Mission, funding is given to State Governments for Digital Agriculture Projects using emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence, and Machine Learning (AI/ML), Internet of Things (IOT), Block chain etc.

Under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF), support is extended to cold storages in agri-export clusters, at farm gate level, for small and marginal farmers as well as big businesses, APMCs/mandis to reduce post-harvest losses and increase farmers' returns. Entrepreneurs, cooperatives, PACS, and SHGs are actively availing AIF support for establishing cold chain logistics, often integrated with grading, sorting, and packaging units. Till 30.06.2025, 2454 cold storage projects have been sanctioned under AIF with sanctioned amount of ₹8258 crore.

Besides, under the MIDH, for holistic development of horticulture sector, including reducing of harvest and post-harvest losses, financial assistance is provided for various horticulture activities. These include setting up of Pack Houses, Integrated Pack House, cold storages, Reefer Transport, Ripening Chamber etc. The component is demand/entrepreneur driven for which Government assistance in the form of credit linked back ended subsidy is available at the rate of 35% of the project cost in general areas and at the rate of 50% of the project cost in hilly and scheduled areas through respective State Horticulture Mission(s) (SHMs).

As of now, there is no proposal to develop agricultural models like those in the Netherlands and Israel in metropolitan areas.

Annexure

Various Schemes/Programmes of Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

Pradhan MantriKisanSammanNidhi (PM-KISAN)

Pradhan MantriKisanMaanDhanYojana (PM-KMY)

Pradhan MantriFasalBimaYojana (PMFBY)/ Restructured Weather Based Crop  Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS)

Modified Interest Subvention Scheme (MISS)

Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF)

Formation and Promotion of 10,000 new Farmer Producers Organizations (FPOs)

National Bee Keeping and Honey Mission (NBHM)

Namo Drone Didi

National Mission on Natural Farming (NMNF)

Pradhan MantriAnnadataAaySanraksHanAbhiyan (PM-AASHA)

Agri Fund for Start-Ups & Rural Enterprises’ (AgriSURE)

Per Drop More Crop (PDMC)

Sub-Mission on Agriculture Mechanization (SMAM)

ParamparagatKrishiVikasYojana (PKVY)

Soil Health & Fertility (SH&F)

Rainfed Area Development (RAD)

Agroforestry

Crop Diversification Programme (CDP)

Sub-Mission on Agriculture Extension (SMAE)

Sub-Mission on Seed and Planting Material (SMSP)

National Food Security and Nutrition Mission (NFSNM)

Integrated Scheme for Agriculture Marketing (ISAM)

Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH)

National Mission on Edible Oils (NMEO)-Oil Palm

National Mission on Edible Oils (NMEO)-Oilseeds

Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region

Digital Agriculture Mission

National Bamboo Mission

IMPLEMENTATION OF PMFBY

Posted On: 25 JUL 2025 6:24PM by PIB Delhi

The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (PMFBY) was introduced in the country from Kharif 2016 season.   The scheme is  demand driven and voluntary for the States/UTs as well as farmers.    However, the coverage of farmers including non-loanee farmers, small & marginal farmers and tenant farmers is increasing under the scheme is showing increasing trends year-on-year basis.  Keeping in view the various steps taken by the Government, total number farmers enrolled has increased from 3.17 crore in 2022-23 to 4.19 crore in 2024-25, i.e. an increase of 32%.   The number of farmers enrolled in 2024-25 under the scheme is at its highest since inception of the scheme.   Year-wise and State-wise details of claims pending during 2020-21 to 2024-25 are given in Annexure.

Out of the total farmer applications enrolled under the scheme in 2024-25, 6.5%, 17.6% and 48%  are pertaining to tenant, marginal and loanee farmers respectively.

Government has taken various steps to strengthen implementation of this scheme including increase in coverage of farmer applications, bring transparency, ensure timely settlement of claims and increase awareness of the scheme:

Government has undertaken development of National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP) as a single source of data ensuring subsidy payment, co-ordination, transparency, dissemination of information and delivery of services including direct online enrollment of farmers, uploading/obtaining individual insured famer’s details for better monitoring and to ensure transfer of claim amount electronically to the individual farmer’s Bank Account. 

In order to rigorously monitor claim disbursal process, a dedicated module namely ‘Digiclaim Module’ has been operationalized for payment of claims from Kharif 2022 onwards.  It involves integration of National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP) with Public Finance Management System (PFMS) and accounting system of Insurance Companies to provide timely & transparent processing of all claims w.e.f. Kharif 2024, in case payment is not made timely by Insurance Company, penalty of 12% is auto-calculated and levied through NCIP.  

Delinking of Central Government share of premium subsidy from that of State Governments has been implemented so that farmers can get proportionate claims relating to the Central Government share.

Opening of ESCROW Account by the State Government concerned for deposit of their premium share in advance as per provisions of the scheme has been made mandatory w.e.f. Kharif 2025 season. 

Also, towards leveraging technology in implementation of the scheme, various steps like capturing of yield data/Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs) data through CCE-Agri App & uploading it on the NCIP, allowing insurance companies to witness the conduct of CCEs, integration of State land records with NCIP etc. have already been taken to improve timely settlement of the claims to farmers.

Provision of 12% penalty on delay in payment of claims by insurance company is auto calculated on National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP).

The Government has actively supported the awareness activities being carried out by the States, implementing Insurance Companies, financial institutions, and Common Service Centres (CSCs) network to disseminate key features of PMFBY amongst farmers and members of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs).

Structured awareness campaign ‘Crop Insurance Week/Fasal Bima Saptah’ has been initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare since Kharif 2021 season onwards.          Along with this, ‘Fasal Bima Pathshalas’ are also being organized at village/GP level for knowledge building of farmers on various aspects of scheme implementation.

Government had also organized a nationwide Doorstep Crop Insurance Policy/receipt Distribution mega drive – ‘Meri Policy Mere Haath’. Hard copies of crop insurance policy receipts are distributed to farmers enrolled under PMFBY through special camps at gram Panchayat/village level.

 Following technologies for Objective Crop Damage & Loss Assessment and transparency have also been implemented recently w.e.f. 2023-24 under the scheme:

YES-TECH (Yield Estimation System Based on Technology) for gradual migration to Remote-Sensing based yield estimation to help assess yields as well as fair and accurate Crop Yield Estimation. This initiative has been launched for paddy & wheat crops from Kharif 2023 wherein 30% weightage to yield estimation will mandatorily be assigned to YES-TECH derived yield. Soybean crop has been added from Kharif 2024 season. 

WINDS (Weather Information Network and Data System) for setting up of Network of Automatic Weather Stations (AWS) & Automatic Rain-Gauges (ARG) to the tune of 5 times of existing network for collecting hyper-local weather data at GP & Block level.  This will be fed into a National database with interoperability & sharing of data in coordination with India Meteorological Department (IMD).  WINDS provides data not only for YES-TECH but also for effective drought & disaster management, accurate weather prediction and offering better parametric insurance products.

 BLUEPRINT OF AGRICULTURAL REVOLUTION 4.0

Posted On: 25 JUL 2025 6:26PM by PIB Delhi

The government has employed Artificial Intelligence (AI) methods and IoT-enabled systems to improve crop productivity, sustainability and farmer livelihoods, and to address various challenges in the agricultural sector to aid farmers, etc. Some initiatives are given below:

‘Kisan e-Mitra’ is a voice-based AI-powered chatbot developed to assist farmers with responses to their queries on the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. This solution supports 11 regional languages and is evolving to assist with other government programs. At present, it handles over 20,000 farmer queries daily and so far, more than 95 lakh queries have been answered.

The National Pest Surveillance System, for tackling the loss of produce due to climate change, utilizes AI and Machine Learning to detect pest infestation in crops, enabling timely intervention for healthier crops. This tool, currently used by over 10,000 extension workers, allows farmers to capture images of pests to help them mitigate pest attacks and reduce crop losses. At present, it supports 61 crops and over 400 pests combinations.

AI/ML-based analytics using field photographs for crop health assessment and pest identification.

Crop health monitoring using Satellite imagery, weather & soil moisture datasets for rice and wheat crops.

Under the National e-Governance Plan in Agriculture (NeGPA) component of the Digital Agriculture Mission, funding is given to the States/UTs for Digital Agriculture Projects using emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), Internet of Things (IoT) sensor-based systems etc.

Government is assessing real-time fertility condition of soils through its ongoing Soil Health Card Program, where soil samples are collected from fields of farmers. These soil samples are analysed in the Laboratory for determining the 12 important soil parameters, and based on their results, optimum integrated fertilizer recommendations are given to the farmers through the Soil Health Card.

Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (DA&FW) is implementing the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Per Drop More Crop (PDMC) in the country from 2015-16 onwards. PDMC focuses on enhancing water-use efficiency at the farm-level through Micro-Irrigation, namely Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation Systems.  Micro Irrigation systems help in saving water as well as reducing fertilizer-usage through fertigation lower labour expenses lower other input costs and overall income enhancement of farmers.  The Government provides financial assistance @ 55% for small and marginal farmers and @ 45% for other farmers for the installation of Drip and Sprinkler systems under the PDMC.   

LINKAGE OF FPOs WITH INDUSTRIES

Posted On: 25 JUL 2025 6:27PM by PIB Delhi

Government of India has taken several proactive initiatives to promote direct marketing of farmers’ produce, thereby aiming to reduce dependency on middlemen and enhance farmers’ income. The key initiatives undertaken include:

Implementation of Formation & Promotion of 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) scheme:  Through the Central Sector Scheme for Formation and Promotion of 10,000 FPOs, farmers are organized into collectives, enabling them to engage in direct marketing and negotiate better terms with buyers.

National Agriculture Market (e-NAM): The electronic National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) facilitates transparent and competitive online trading, allowing farmers and FPOs to directly connect with traders.

The Government has taken several initiatives to facilitate direct linkages between industries and Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) to ensure better market access, fair price realization, and integrated value chain development. Key steps include:

Cluster-Based Business Organizations (CBBOs): Under the Central Sector Scheme for Formation and Promotion of 10,000 FPOs, CBBOs are tasked to facilitate market linkages by identifying and connecting FPOs with relevant industries, processors, and institutional buyers.

Buyer-Seller Meets (BSMs): Regular BSMs are organized at the state and national level to bring together industries and FPOs, allowing them to explore direct procurement opportunities.

Digital Market Platforms: FPOs are encouraged to use digital platforms such as Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), e-NAM, Government e-Marketplace (GEM), etc. to list their produce and directly interact with buyers from agri-processing, retail, and export sectors.

FPOs are being facilitated for issuance of input licenses (seed, fertilizer, pesticide, etc.), enabling them to supply inputs and establish business relations with agri-input industries.

These initiatives have resulted in increased formal linkages between FPOs and industries across various sectors such as food processing, retail, agri-export, and input supply. Till 30th June, 2025, more than 9000 FPOs have been onboarded on ONDC platform, and 216 FPOs on the GeM, enabling them to list and sell agri-products digitally.

FPOs have established backward market linkages with Agri input suppliers like Bayer crop science, Syngenta, Godrej agrovet, National Seeds Corporation (NSC), Hindustan Insecticides Limited (HIL) etc. and forward linkages with ITC, Reliance, Big Basket, Farmart, Agri-Bazaar, Patanjali, Mother dairy, Olam, National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation of India Limited (NCCF) etc. 171 Industries/ Business Organizations have tied up with 430 FPOs of Small Farmers’ Agri‑Business Consortium (SFAC) for procurement of raw materials, finished agri-products, agri-commodities, etc. and supply of farm inputs.

SCHEMES TO MINIMISE POST-HARVEST LOSSES

Posted On: 25 JUL 2025 6:30PM by PIB Delhi

Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) commissioned a study in 2022 namely, “Study to determine Post harvest losses of Agri Produces in India” with reference year 2020-22 through NABARD Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd. (NABCONS). The study was conducted for assessment of post-harvest losses for 54 commodities across 15 Agro-Climatic Zones for various categories, spread across 292 districts of India. The study identified the gaps in infrastructure development, technology infusion and skill requirements in the sector. The study highlighted post-harvest losses of major crops and commodities as detailed below:

The reported losses in vegetables, cereals, plantation crops, and fruits were primarily due to inefficient harvesting, handling, storage, and transportation.

Government is proactively addressing the challenge of post-harvest losses through a comprehensive and integrated approach embedded within multiple flagship schemes aimed at strengthening the agricultural value chain. Key initiatives include:

Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH): Supports creation of infrastructure for post-harvest management including cold storages, ripening chambers, and pack houses to minimize wastages in fruits and vegetables.

Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF): Provides medium to long-term debt financing for investment in viable post-harvest management infrastructure including warehousing, cold chains, and primary processing units.

Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI) Scheme: Supports creation of storage and marketing infrastructure to strengthen supply chains and reduce post-harvest losses at the market level.

National Agriculture Market (e-NAM): Promotes better market access and price discovery, reducing transit losses through a more efficient supply chain.

In addition, Government actively promotes the formation & promotion of 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) to facilitate aggregation, primary processing, and market linkages.

In addition to above, Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) has been implementing Central Sector Umbrella Scheme - Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY) since 2016-17 to create post-harvest infrastructure and processing facilities to boost overall development of the food processing sector including reduction in post-harvest losses, enhancing value addition etc.

PRODUCTION OF CRUDE PALM OIL

Posted On: 29 JUL 2025 4:00PM by PIB Delhi

Edible oil imports are required to bridge the gap between domestic production and consumption till self-sufficiency in edible oils is achieved. Government of India is implementing a centrally sponsored scheme National Mission on Edible Oils - Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26. NMEO-OP strives to boost oil palm cultivation in the country through area expansion. Till March 2025, 1.89 lakh hectares area had been covered under NMEO-OP, taking the total coverage under oil palm in the country to 5.56 lakh hectares. Crude Palm Oil (CPO) production has risen from 1.91 lakh tonnes in 2014-15 to 3.80 lakh tonnes in 2024-25.

To ensure remunerative prices of Fresh Fruit Bunches (FFBs) to farmers, a system of declaring Formula Price every month (by states concerned) are also followed. Industries linked with a particular area procure the FFBs from the farmers on declared monthly Formula Price. Further, to mitigate the price risk of farmers due to sudden falling of international prices, a system of declaring Viability Price by the central Government is also followed and the Viability Gap Payment (VGP) is provided to the farmers in case the Formula Price drops below the Viability Price of the particular year.

With Oil Palm plantation under the mission starts fruiting from 4th year and achieving optimum yield from 8th year onwards, production is expected to get a boost in the coming years leading to increased CPO output and reducing reliance on CPO imports.

ATMANIRBHAR OIL SEEDS ABHIYAN

Posted On: 29 JUL 2025 4:05PM by PIB Delhi

The Government is implementing the National Mission on Edible Oils – Oilseeds (NMEO-OS) to boost domestic oilseed production and to strive toward self-sufficiency in edible oil production. The objective of NMEO-OS is to enhance the production of primary oilseed crops such as Rapeseed & Mustard, Groundnut, Soybean, Sunflower, Sesame, Safflower, Niger, Linseed & Castor  and also increasing collection and extraction efficiency of edible oil from secondary sources like cottonseed, coconut, rice bran as well as Tree-Borne Oilseeds (TBOs). As per Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) portal, oilseed crops covered under insurance are at annexure.   

The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is implementing the five multi-disciplinary All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) in collaboration with different central/state agricultural universities in the country to develop location-specific high-yielding varieties of nine oilseed crops along with corresponding package of practices. Additionally, ICAR is also implementing two flagship research projects on hybrid development and gene editing for the development of high yielding climate resilient varieties of oilseeds.

As a result, 432 high yielding varieties/hybrids of nine annual oilseeds comprising 104 of Rapeseed-Mustard, 95 of Soybean, 69 of Groundnut, 53 of Linseed, 34 of Sesame, 25 of Safflower, 24 of Sunflower, 15 of Castor and 13 of Niger were notified for commercial cultivation in the country during the last 11 years (2014-2025). Efforts are being made to enhance the Varietal Replacement Rate (VRR) and Seed Replacement Rate (SRR), so that genetic potential of the newly developed high yielding varieties could be exploited to enhance domestic production.

During the last five years (2019-20 to 2023-24), a total of about 1,53,704 quintals breeder seed of indented varieties of different oilseeds were produced and supplied to the public/private seed agencies for conversion into certified quality seed for farmers. The ICAR is also engaged in augmenting the availability of quality certified/Truthfully Labelled seed of oilseeds for farmers through district level seed hubs on oilseeds.

Under NMEO-OS, over 600 Value Chain Clusters have been identified across the country, covering more than 10 lakh hectares annually. These clusters are managed by Value Chain Partners (VCPs), including Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) and cooperatives. Farmers in these clusters are getting free high-quality seeds, training in Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) and advisory services on weather and pest management. Furthermore, the mission provides support for setting up of post-harvest infrastructure to increase the efficiency of oilseed collection, oil extraction and recovery.

The mission supports various types of demonstrations such as Frontline Demonstrations by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Cluster Frontline Demonstrations by Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and Block Demonstrations by State Agriculture Departments to create awareness among farmers about the latest high-yielding varieties and advanced technologies in oilseed cultivation. Additionally, an Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) campaign is being implemented to increase public awareness of recommended dietary guidelines for edible oils, thereby encouraging healthier consumption patterns across the country.

IMPLEMENTATION OF DRONE DIDI SCHEME

Posted On: 29 JUL 2025 4:04PM by PIB Delhi

The Government has approved ‘Namo Drone Didi’ as Central Sector Scheme for providing 15,000 drones to the Women Self Help Groups (SHGs) with an outlay of Rs. 1261 Crores for the period from 2023-24 to 2025-26.  The major objectives of the scheme is to promote advance technology in agriculture for improved efficiency, enhanced crop yield & reduced cost of operation and to empower SHGs as drone service providers for increasing their income and providing livelihood support to them. Under this scheme, Central Financial Assistance (CFA) @ 80% of the cost of drone package up to a maximum of Rs. 8.00 lakhs is provided to the selected women SHGs. 15 days drone pilot training for one of the members of SHGs and 5 days drone assistant training to other member/family member of SHGs is provided as a part of drone package.

Lead Fertilizer Companies (LFCs) have distributed 1094 drones to drone didis of SHGs in 2023-24 using their internal resources. Out of these 1094 drones, 500 drones have been distributed under the Namo Drone Didi Scheme. The State-wise distribution of 1094 drones is attached at Annexure -I. Members of these SHGs have been trained as drone pilots at various Remote Pilot Training Organizations (RPTOs) authorized by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The allocation of remaining 14500 drones has been informed to the State Governments as indicated in Annexure-II.

Agricultural Development and Rural Transformation Centre (ADRTC), Bangalore have carried out a study on economics and business viability of drone operations on the 500 drones distributed by LFCs under Namo Drone Didi scheme. The findings indicates that kisan drones cover an area of one acre in 7-8 minutes and the flight time on a single battery charge of the kisan drones of various manufacturers ranged from 5-20 minutes. The drone package under Namo Drone Didi scheme include one standard battery set and additional four battery sets. 

The study report also indicate that,  where the  utility vehicles were not provided with the drones supplied by LFCs, 42.68 per cent of the Drone Didis faced transportation-related issues, with the South (78.82%) being the most affected. 68.66 per cent drone didis also reported that hiring a transport vehicle was costly. To address the drone transport issue, a provision has been made under Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM) to provide financial assistance @ 80% to the Women SHGs identified under Namo Drone Didi scheme for purchase of Multi-utility machines, which are also used as drone transport. The study also indicate that the SHGs were primarily engaged in agriculture and allied activities and the drones provided to them has expanded their niche to modern agricultural practices through drone technology, enhancing their efficiency and productivity. Overall, the adoption of drones has diversified SHG activities, improved agricultural practices, and increased income opportunities for women in rural communities.