Q.1) Ans: (B)
EXP: The given blank requires a noun, which would be modified by the adjective “academic”. This eliminates options A and D. Now, note that the sentence carries the phrase, “most of it looks at”, where it would refer to the noun in the blank. Among “Research”, “Diversity” and “Reshaping”, research would look at or analyse things. This eliminates “diversity” and “reshaping” as possible fillers. Option B is the correct answer.

Q.2) Ans: (A)
EXP: The blank is followed by a word “economies”. This means that the word that would fill up the blank should describe the economy of India or be related to it. Option B and E can be easily eliminated as they would not convey a sound grammatical meaning. “Unique” is incorrect as the latter part of the sentence talks about challenges, and it is quite sarcastic to say that unique economies would pose challenges. Since the tone of the passage is not sarcastic, “unique” can be eliminates. Option C seems to fit in the blank but a phrase like “reshaping economies” is less appropriate than the phrase like “emerging economies”. Emerging economies refer to the developing economies, or those which are towards the betterment. Hence, option A would be the most appropriate response.

Q.3) Ans: (D)
EXP: Since the context talks about the key features of Indian Retail Space, it can be inferred that those key features make it “unique” or the only one of its kind; unlike anything else. No other option except D fits the blank either grammatically or contextually. Hence option D is the correct response.

Q.4) Ans: (C)
EXP: The concerned sentence mentions that on every street in India, one would find more kirana stores than something else. The comparative degree indicates that the blank must carry an adjective which defines the “retail outlets”. Retail outlets are shops, thus, “organised” would be an appropriate adjective for the same. Also, Big Bazar or Reliance Fresh would be categorised as established retail stores rather than emerging ones. Thus, option C is the correct answer.

Q.5) Ans: (B)
EXP: The context is bit informative and a comparison has been made between the two countries regarding the price fixation or deciding the retail price of a particular product. Here, it has been said that in US, prices are decided by the retailer whereas in our country, prices are already printed on the package. Thus, as per the meaning of the context, “decides” is the most suitable response that should replace the bold word and fill up the blank.

Q.6) Ans: (C)
EXP: The blank is followed by the adjective “infrequent”, which could only be modified by an adverb. Thus, the blank must carry an adverb. Out of five given alternatives, only “relatively” is an adverb which means in relation, comparison, or proportion to something else. Hence, option C is the correct answer.

Q.7) Ans: (D)
EXP: The style of the passage is Expository. Expository writing's main purpose is to explain. It is a subject-oriented writing style, in which authors focus on telling you about a given topic or subject without voicing their personal opinions which cause strong feelings in the minds of reader. Descriptive writing's main purpose is to describe. It is a style of writing that focuses on describing a character, an event, or a place in great detail. Narrative writing's main purpose is to tell a story. The author will create different characters and tell you what happens to them(sometimes the author writes from the point of view of one of the characters Persuasive writing's main purpose is to convince. Unlike expository writing, persuasive writing contains the opinions and biases of the author. An argument paragraph presents a point of view and provides evidence for the point of view taken. An argument is an opinion supported by facts. Writers refer to opinions as claims and facts as evidence.

Q.8) Ans: (D)
EXP: Except for option D, All the words are synonyms of the word ‘Traumatic’."Inchoate" means just begun and so not fully formed or developed.

Q.9) Ans: (C)
EXP: In the passage, the author states, “Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD.” This means that male prejudice against women may limit unit cohesion for women and prevent them from forming close bonds with their units. Low unit cohesion is cited as a factor that may lead to increased risk of PTSD. This supports option(I). The author states that “for women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater. This means that some women hesitate to admit they are suffering from PTSD because they do not want to conform to stereotypes that portray women as weak. This supports option(II). Although it might be true that women’s awareness of negative stereotypes may lead to a reduction in self-esteem, this not discussed in the passage. Furthermore, a reduction in self-esteem is cited as a result of PTSD, not a factor that increases the likelihood of developing PTSD. This eliminates option(III). Therefore(C) is correct.

Q.10) Ans: (D)
EXP: The author states in the passage Option I and Option II. Option III is not mentioned anywhere in the passage so it is eliminated.

Q.11) Ans: (E)
EXP: Throughout the passage, the author provides information about female veterans suffering from PTSD and the problems they face. Based on this overview, we can determine that the author’s purpose is to educate readers about the problem of insufficient treatment available for female veterans with PTSD. Therefore(E) is correct. The author focuses specifically on why female veterans are more susceptible to PTSD than male veterans. He or she notes that military veterans are more likely than civilians to develop it, but does not explain why this is true. This means(A) is incorrect. Although the author may agree that government officials should increase funding for PTSD treatment centers, the author’s primary purpose here is to educate, not to persuade. Furthermore, the author addresses a general audience rather than government officials specifically. This makes(B) incorrect. Although the author does criticize the government for not doing more about female soldiers’ PTSD, the tone is not so critical that the purpose could be to denounce the government. The author focuses on providing information more than assigning blame. This eliminates(C). The author has the warning signs of the passage, but that is with respect to military veterans.This makes(D) incorrect.

Q.12) Ans: (D)
EXP: The author states that Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. This makes Option I correct.The author states that men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, care giving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and Wife. This makes option II correct.However, The author does not mention that most female veterans refuse to seek treatment. So option III is incorrect.

Q.13) Ans: (E)
EXP: In passage, author states that due to “recent changes,” there are now “improved treatment options” for female veterans suffering from PTSD. The author also discusses a rule change that now makes mental health counseling available to women who have not served in combat positions, which increases women’s eligibility for benefits. Despite these improvements, the author suggests in the final paragraph that the amount of care provided is still insufficient by stating, “More must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country.” Based on this information, we can determine that the author believes the amount of care provided has improved over the past few years, but it is still insufficient. Therefore(E) is correct. The author does not suggest that state and independent agencies have made up for government deficiencies, so(A) is incorrect. Although the author is critical of the government, he or she is not so harsh as to suggest that the government has done almost nothing to help. This makes(B) incorrect. The author claims that mental health care has been worse for female veterans as compared to males, not better, so(C) is incorrect. The author goes on to explain that women may be even more hesitant to ask for help than men because of negative gender stereotypes. However, the author does not suggest that most female veterans refuse to seek treatment. This eliminates(D).

Q.14) Ans: (A)
EXP: When using not only... but also in a sentence, parallelism should be the goal. It means that the words following both parts of this correlative conjunction(i.e., not only and but also) should belong to the same parts of speech. Therefore, only A-F forms a grammatically correct sentence. Reframed sentence: Not only the investigation is one that is continuing and worldwide but also one that we expect to continue for quite some time.

Q.15) Ans: (D)
EXP: Hardly....when is simply used to combine or rewrite sentences denoting two simultaneous past actions. Thus, there are two possible pairs that happen to connect in the same manner.i.e. A-D& B-E, making the grammatical and contextual sense. Reframed sentences:(I) Hardly had they spoken these words when the door opened and Arion himself stood before them. (II) Hardly had I closed my eyes when I began to imagine the most fantastic shapes.

Q.16) Ans: (C)
EXP: The structure no sooner...than is used to talk about something that happens immediately after something else. When no sooner comes at the beginning of a sentence, we use inverted word order. That means the auxiliary verb comes before the subject. Hence, A-D is the only possible that can be formed. Reframed sentence: No sooner had she agreed to marry him than she started to have terrible doubts.

Q.17) Ans: (B)
EXP: The paragraph is talking about the India-Pakistan war in 1965, wherein both countries claim to be victorious. Sentence C comes first as it introduces the topic by the mentioning the year and the first act(Pakistani forces infiltrated India-occupied Kashmir) of the sequence. Now, sentence E comes next as it describes what the forces did next. Now, none of the remaining sentences talks about what happened after the truce. So, we have to mention the truce before anything else. Sentence B mentions the truce, so B comes next. D& A are the remaining sentences. Sentence 6 which is the fixed part in the passage mentions'neutral assessments'. It means the opinions of people not involved in the war. Sentence A states the opinion of an American reporter. So, A comes before 6, which A to come after B. thus the final sequence becomes CEBDA. Thus, the second statement is E.

Q.18) Ans: (E)
EXP: As established, the correct sequence is CEBDA and the fifth sentence is A, which states the opinion of an American reporter providing a neutral assessment as mentioned is sentence 6. Options A, C& D describe the events before the truce was called in. So, they would be more suitable before B in the sequence. Option E provides a neutral assessment similar to that of sentence a from the sequence. So, option E would fit in the sequence before sentence A(the fifth statement in the sequence).

Q.19) Ans: (C)
EXP: The paragraph is talking about the India-Pakistan war in 1965, wherein both countries claim to be victorious. Sentence C comes first as it introduces the topic by the mentioning the year and the first act(Pakistani forces infiltrated India-occupied Kashmir) of the sequence. Now, sentence E comes next as it describes what the forces did next. Now, none of the remaining sentences talks about what happened after the truce. So, we have to mention the truce before anything else. Sentence B mentions the truce, so B comes next. D& A are the remaining sentences. Sentence 6 which is the fixed part in the passage mentions'neutral assessments'. It means the opinions of people not involved in the war. Sentence A states the opinion of an American reporter. So, A comes before 6, which A to come after B. thus the final sequence becomes CEBDA. Clearly, the correct pair is E-B.

Q.20) Ans: (A)
EXP: The sentence says'the next day' means there is a fixed date and no long duration. So, options B& E are wrong. Also, whenever UN intervenes to stop a war, there is always a declaration of a ceasefire. Such events are extremely planned and not sudden or abrupt. So, options C& D are also wrong. This leaves us with option A. Since the given sentence mentions the official date of the ceasefire,"formally" is the best-fit word for the blank.

Q.21) Ans: (A)
EXP: The sentence says'the next day' means there is a fixed date and no long duration. So, options B& E are wrong. Also, whenever UN intervenes to stop a war, there is always a declaration of a ceasefire. Such events are extremely planned and not sudden or abrupt. So, options C& D are also wrong. This leaves us with option A. Since the given sentence mentions the official date of the ceasefire,"formally" is the best-fit word for the blank.

Q.22) Ans: (C)
EXP: Insisted- demanded something forcefully Provoked-stimulated or gave rise to Incited-encouraged or stirred up Determined -discovered, learnt'Resulted' cannot be put in the first blank as it would require the preposition 'in'. Taking option B into consideration,'fear' cannot fit in the second blank as we need the participle form of the verb. Option C, if put in the blanks will convey contradictory ideas. An outcry will not be activated if people support an idea. Option E is incorrect as the phrase'angered an outcry' is grammatically wrong. The words mentioned in option C perfectly fit in the blanks. If people find out that mercury is harmful, they will raise an outcry against its dumping. Thus, option C is the correct answer.

Q.23) Ans: (C)
EXP: Certify- verify Admitted- accept, include Ensure- make certain that Grant- agree to give or allow Since the first blank has been preceded by'to', we need a verb that is in its base form(to+ verb= infinitive) to form an infinitive. Thus, options B and D can be discarded. Similarly, option A can be discarded as we need a verb in its base form in the second blank because it is preceded by 'would'. This leaves us only with option C, and the words mentioned in it perfectly fit the blanks. Thus, option C is the correct answer.

Q.24) Ans: (A)
EXP: Note that after the first blank, the noun'areas' has been mentioned. This indicates that the noun in the blank should also be plural. This criterion is only fulfilled by option A, where 'spaces' is plural. Had'areas' not been mentioned, options B and D would have fitted the blanks. So the sentence means that parking spaces are shown to the authorities as common areas which they actually act as parking areas. Thus, option A is the correct answer.

Q.25) Ans: (E)
EXP: Continuing means to go on with even after a formal course. Dizzy when used as an adjective, i.e dizzying, means confusing and very fast. Supreme and leading both signifies something high. Management and administrative is used in dealing with people or something. Better means superior and vulnerable means endangered or unsafe. Thus, the correct option is option E.

Q.26) Ans: (B)
EXP: Out of the given parts, part B is error free. The word ‘beside’ functions as a preposition and its most common definition is ‘at the side of; next to’ while the word ‘besides’ is defined as ‘in addition to, as well; moreover, furthermore’. In the part A, the roof is next to them, therefore, ‘beside’ must be used rather than ‘besides’. In the part C, the subject is pieces of glass which is plural, therefore, plural verb i.e. ‘were’ must be used to maintain the subject-verb agreement. The part D is erroneous because of the presence of preposition ‘on’. The correct preposition to go with ‘scattered’ is ‘in’. Therefore, only part B is error-free.

Q.27) Ans: (B)
EXP: Out of the given parts, only part B is correct. Part A is erroneous because the duration of three weeks will be given or granted to an authority and not done. In part C, the phrase “be respondent” is grammatically incorrect. “Respond to”, which means to react to or give an answer to, should be used instead. Part D has an error “all” would imply multiple details. So, the phrase can either be “file an affidavit citing all the details” or “file an affidavit citing the detail”. Therefore, only part B is error free.

Q.28) Ans: (C)
EXP: Out of the given parts, only part C is correct. Part A is erroneous because of the incorrect preposition ‘on’. One always feels bitter ‘about’ a fact and not ‘on’ a fact. Part B is erroneous because of the presence of ‘or’. ‘Neither’ is always accompanied with ‘nor’. Therefore, ‘or’ must be replaced with ‘or’ to render the correct meaning. Part D needs a noun while an adjective ‘antipathetic’ is used. It should be replaced with ‘antipathy’ to make the sentence correct. ‘Antipathy’ means ‘a deep-seated feeling of aversion’. Therefore, only part C is error-free.

Q.29) Ans: (C)
EXP: Out of the given parts, only part C is correct. Part A is incorrect because of the preposition ‘by’ after ‘aside’. ‘Aside’ takes the preposition ‘from’ meaning ‘apart from’. Part B is incorrect because it violates subject-verb agreement. ‘Anything, everything, nothing and something’ are always singular and requires a singular verb. Therefore, ‘were’ must be replaced with ‘was’ to make the sentence correct. Part D is erroneous because of the presence of ‘among’. We use between to refer to two things which are clearly separated. We use among to talk about things which are not clearly separated because they are part of a group or crowd or mass of objects. Hence, ‘between’ must be used instead of ‘among’. Therefore, only part C is error-free.

Q.30) Ans: (E)
EXP: All the parts are grammatically and syntactically correct. It should be noted that the phrase ‘the number’ always takes a singular verb while the phrase ‘a number’ takes a plural verb. Hence, option E is the correct answer.

Q.31) Ans: (A)
EXP: 1. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. 2. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. 3. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. 4. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Box H is placed above Box A. Grey colour box is above red colour box. 5. Box C is of green colour, therefore CASE II is not true. Box D is of Violet colour.

Q.32) Ans: (B)
EXP: 1. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. 2. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. 3. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. 4. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Box H is placed above Box A. Grey colour box is above red colour box. 5. Box C is of green colour, therefore CASE II is not true. Box D is of Violet colour.

Q.33) Ans: (C)
EXP: 1. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. 2. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. 3. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. 4. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Box H is placed above Box A. Grey colour box is above red colour box. 5. Box C is of green colour, therefore CASE II is not true. Box D is of Violet colour.

Q.34) Ans: (D)
EXP: 1. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. 2. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. 3. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. 4. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Box H is placed above Box A. Grey colour box is above red colour box. 5. Box C is of green colour, therefore CASE II is not true. Box D is of Violet colour.

Q.35) Ans: (D)
EXP: 1. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. 2. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. 3. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. 4. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Box H is placed above Box A. Grey colour box is above red colour box. 5. Box C is of green colour, therefore CASE II is not true. Box D is of Violet colour.

Q.36) Ans: (C)
EXP: Family member: 8(Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema) Male= Female= 4 members and two married couples. Symbols used in diagrams, 1) Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. 2) Neither Seema nor Sushil is married to Chetan. 3) Susheel’s sister has one son. 4) Vinit is the maternal grandfather of Aashi’s father as Vinit does not have any son. (Clearly, Aashi is from fourth generation and unmarried and Vinit is from first generation) 5) Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. 6) Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. 7) Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. (Hence, Susheel is from second generation and is a female. As chetan is not married to Seema and Sonu is unmarried, Chetan is married to Geeta and Pankaj is married to Seema. Sonu is unmarried and is the daughter of Chetan and Ashi is the son of chetan). So, the complete family tree is, Hence, Aashi is not the female member of this family group.

Q.37) Ans: (A)
EXP: Family member: 8(Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema) Male= Female= 4 members and two married couples. Symbols used in diagrams, 1) Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. 2) Neither Seema nor Sushil is married to Chetan. 3) Susheel’s sister has one son. 4) Vinit is the maternal grandfather of Aashi’s father as Vinit does not have any son. (Clearly, Aashi is from fourth generation and unmarried and Vinit is from first generation) 5) Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. 6) Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. 7) Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. (Hence, Susheel is from second generation and is a female. As chetan is not married to Seema and Sonu is unmarried, Chetan is married to Geeta and Pankaj is married to Seema. Sonu is unmarried and is the daughter of Chetan and Ashi is the son of chetan). So, the complete family tree is, Hence, from the above family tree, it is clear that Chetan is the nephew of Susheel.

Q.38) Ans: (C)
EXP: Family member: 8(Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema) Male= Female= 4 members and two married couples. Symbols used in diagrams, 1) Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. 2) Neither Seema nor Sushil is married to Chetan. 3) Susheel’s sister has one son. 4) Vinit is the maternal grandfather of Aashi’s father as Vinit does not have any son. (Clearly, Aashi is from fourth generation and unmarried and Vinit is from first generation) 5) Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. 6) Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. 7) Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. (Hence, Susheel is from second generation and is a female. As chetan is not married to Seema and Sonu is unmarried, Chetan is married to Geeta and Pankaj is married to Seema. Sonu is unmarried and is the daughter of Chetan and Ashi is the son of chetan). Hence, from the above family tree, it is clear that Geeta and Seema are the married females in the family.

Q.39) Ans: (B)
EXP: Family member: 8(Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema) Male= Female= 4 members and two married couples. Symbols used in diagrams, 1) Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. 2) Neither Seema nor Sushil is married to Chetan. 3) Susheel’s sister has one son. 4) Vinit is the maternal grandfather of Aashi’s father as Vinit does not have any son. (Clearly, Aashi is from fourth generation and unmarried and Vinit is from first generation) 5) Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. 6) Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. 7) Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. (Hence, Susheel is from second generation and is a female. As chetan is not married to Seema and Sonu is unmarried, Chetan is married to Geeta and Pankaj is married to Seema. Sonu is unmarried and is the daughter of Chetan and Ashi is the son of chetan). Hence, Pankaj belongs to 2nd generation.

Q.40) Ans: (B)
EXP: Family member: 8(Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema) Male= Female= 4 members and two married couples. Symbols used in diagrams, 1) Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. 2) Neither Seema nor Sushil is married to Chetan. 3) Susheel’s sister has one son. 4) Vinit is the maternal grandfather of Aashi’s father as Vinit does not have any son. (Clearly, Aashi is from fourth generation and unmarried and Vinit is from first generation) 5) Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. 6) Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. 7) Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. (Hence, Susheel is from second generation and is a female. As chetan is not married to Seema and Sonu is unmarried, Chetan is married to Geeta and Pankaj is married to Seema. Sonu is unmarried and is the daughter of Chetan and Ashi is the son of chetan) So, the complete family tree is, Hence, Aashi is the son of Geeta.

Q.41) Ans: (C)
EXP: Given statements: A> B ≤ C; B= D; E ≤ F ≤ D On combining: A> B= D ≤ C; E ≤ F ≤ D= B I. E= C(maybe true)(as E ≤ F ≤ D= B ≤ C. So E may be less than or equal to C) II. C> E(maybe true)(as E ≤ F ≤ D= B ≤ C. So C may be greater than or equal to E) III. A< D(false)(A> B= D. So A is greater than D) IV. F> B(false)(as E ≤ F ≤ D= B. So F is either less than or equal to B) Therefore, either conclusion I or II follows.

Q.42) Ans: (D)
EXP: Given statements: D> O ≤ M= I< N; I> A ≥ T> E On combining: D> O ≤ M= I> A ≥ T> E; N > I> A ≥ T> E I. M> E(true)(as M= I> A ≥ T> E. So M is greater than E) II. O< T(false)(as O ≤ M= I> A ≥ T> E. There is no definite relation between O and T.) III. N> A(true)(N> I> A. So N is greater than A) IV. D= E(false)(as D> O ≤ M= I> A ≥ T > E. So there is no definite relation between D and E.) Therefore, both conclusion I and III follows.

Q.43) Ans: (B)
EXP: Given statements: P= Q ≥ R; Q ≥ S> T; U< R On combining: P= Q ≥ R> U; P= Q ≥ S> T I. P ≥ S(true)(as P= Q ≥ S. So P is greater than and equal to S) II. Q> U(true)(as Q ≥ R> U. So Q is greater than U) III. P= T(false)(P= Q ≥ S> T. So P is greater than T) IV. R> P(false)(P= Q ≥ R. P is greater than and equal to R.) Therefore, both conclusion I and II follows.

Q.44) Ans: (B)
EXP: Given statements: I ≥ J= K< L; M ≤ J; N< K On combining: I ≥ J= K ≥ M; N< J= K< L I. M ≤ I(true)(I ≥ J ≥ M. M is less than and equal to I) II. N< L(true)(N< K< L. N is less than L) III. I> L(false)(I ≥ J= K< L. There is no definite relation between I and L.) IV. J= N(false)(J= K> N. There is no definite relation between J and N.) Therefore, both conclusion I and II follows.

Q.45) Ans: (A)
EXP: Given statements: I ≥ J= K< L; L> M ≥ N; I< O On combining: O> I ≥ J= K< L> M ≥ N I. O> L(false)(as O> I ≥ J= K< L. There is no definite relation between O and L.) II.N> L(false)(as L> M ≥ N. L is greater than N) III. I> M(false)(I ≥ J= K< L> M. There is no definite relation between I and M.) IV. J< N(false)(J= K< L> M ≥ N. There is no definite relation between J and N.) None of the conclusion follows.

Q.46) Ans: (C)
EXP: We have the given sequence, 84 LAST 67 CRAB 78 NEWS 89 ROSE 76 UNDO After, multiplying the digits of the word that is starting with consonant and ending at a consonant and adding the digits of the rest words within the number, we get: 32 LAST 42 CRAB 56 NEWS 17 ROSE 13 UNDO Arranging the words according to ascending order of the number from left to right end, we get 13 UNDO 17 ROSE 32 LAST 42 CRAB 56 NEWS Here, the 11th letter from left end is S.

Q.47) Ans: (D)
EXP: We have the given sequence, 84 LAST 67 CRAB 78 NEWS 89 ROSE 76 UNDO After, reversing all the letters which are attached to an odd number and changing all the letters which are attached to an even number to their succeeding letter, we get: 84 MBTU 67 XIZY 78 OFXT 89 ILHV 76 VOEP Now, the letters in the new sequence appearing twice are T, X, I, V and O. 84 MBTU 67 XIZY 78 OFXT 89 ILHV 76 VOEP

Q.48) Ans: (A)
EXP: We have the given sequence, 84 LAST 67 CRAB 78 NEWS 89 ROSE 76 UNDO Here, the meaningful words having second letter as a vowel that can be formed using the above words separately are: 1 – ‘SALT’ using the word ‘LAST’ 2 – ‘SORE’ using the word ‘ROSE’ Now, the number attached to the words ‘LAST’ and ‘ROSE’ are 84 and 89 respectively. Required Sum= 8+ 4+ 8+ 9= 29

Q.49) Ans: (A)
EXP: M is the eldest person. Details Solution: Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. So Q was either born in April or June. ● The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. So that person either born in February or April. ● Only one person is elder to N. So N was born in Feb. Take case 1: ● S is 2nd to the left of N. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in March. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 5 persons are younger to P so T must born in June. ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● P is facing outside. All the position of in the middle is occupied so this case gets rejected. Take case 2: ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in May. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 3 persons are younger to P so T must born in April. ● As we know that N was born in Feb. S is 2nd to the left of N. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. ● P is facing outside as P was born in May so P was exactly between N and S. ● So M was born in Jan. ● S is elder to O so S was born in March and O was born in July. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.50) Ans: (C)
EXP: Q is 2nd to the left of R. Details Solution: Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. So Q was either born in April or June. ● The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. So that person either born in February or April. ● Only one person is elder to N. So N was born in Feb. Take case 1: ● S is 2nd to the left of N. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in March. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 5 persons are younger to P so T must born in June. ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● P is facing outside. All the position of in the middle is occupied so this case gets rejected. Take case 2: ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in May. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 3 persons are younger to P so T must born in April. ● As we know that N was born in Feb. S is 2nd to the left of N. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. ● P is facing outside as P was born in May so P was exactly between N and S. ● So M was born in Jan. ● S is elder to O so S was born in March and O was born in July. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.51) Ans: (C)
EXP: O was born in July. Details Solution: Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. So Q was either born in April or June. ● The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. So that person either born in February or April. ● Only one person is elder to N. So N was born in Feb. Take case 1: ● S is 2nd to the left of N. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in March. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 5 persons are younger to P so T must born in June. ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● P is facing outside. All the position of in the middle is occupied so this case gets rejected. Take case 2: ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in May. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 3 persons are younger to P so T must born in April. ● As we know that N was born in Feb. S is 2nd to the left of N. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. ● P is facing outside as P was born in May so P was exactly between N and S. ● So M was born in Jan. ● S is elder to O so S was born in March and O was born in July. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.52) Ans: (E)
EXP: All the persons are facing the centre except O. Details Solution: Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. So Q was either born in April or June. ● The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. So that person either born in February or April. ● Only one person is elder to N. So N was born in Feb. Take case 1: ● S is 2nd to the left of N. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in March. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 5 persons are younger to P so T must born in June. ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● P is facing outside. All the position of in the middle is occupied so this case gets rejected. Take case 2: ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in May. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 3 persons are younger to P so T must born in April. ● As we know that N was born in Feb. S is 2nd to the left of N. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. ● P is facing outside as P was born in May so P was exactly between N and S. ● So M was born in Jan. ● S is elder to O so S was born in March and O was born in July. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.53) Ans: (B)
EXP: O is younger to P. Details Solution: Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. So Q was either born in April or June. ● The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. So that person either born in February or April. ● Only one person is elder to N. So N was born in Feb. Take case 1: ● S is 2nd to the left of N. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in March. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 5 persons are younger to P so T must born in June. ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● P is facing outside. All the position of in the middle is occupied so this case gets rejected. Take case 2: ● The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. ● P is one month elder to Q. So P was born in May. The number of person is elder to T is same as younger to P. 3 persons are younger to P so T must born in April. ● As we know that N was born in Feb. S is 2nd to the left of N. ● R is the youngest person and neighbor of T. R was born in August. ● O is 3rd to the left of R. ● The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. ● P is facing outside as P was born in May so P was exactly between N and S. ● So M was born in Jan. ● S is elder to O so S was born in March and O was born in July. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.54) Ans: (E)
EXP: Given: A, B, C, D, E and F are sitting around a circle facing the Centre. From statement I: L is second to the left of O who is sitting immediate left of P. As position of M, N and Q is not known we cannot answer the question. From statement II: M and N are immediate neighbour of each other and M is sitting immediate left of L. As position of P, Q and O is not known we cannot answer the question. On combining I and II: L is second to the left of O who is sitting immediate left of P and M and N are immediate neighbour of each other and M is sitting immediate left of L. Clearly, Q is second to the right of M. Hence, both the statements are necessary together to answer the question.

Q.55) Ans: (E)
EXP: From I: The first movie was screened on 23rd, Tuesday and was followed by movie D So, D was screened second i.e. on 24th, Wednesday. From II: Movie A was not screened on 25th and one movie was screened between serials A and B One movie was screened between A and B Combining both statements, From I, we know that the serials were screened on 23rd, 24th, 25th and 26th. Clearly, D was screened second i.e. on 24th, Wednesday. From II, one movie was screened between A and B. So, A and B were screened first and third, i.e. on 23rd and 25th. But, A was not screened on 25th. So, A was screened on 23rd and B on 25th. Thus, C was screened on 26th, Friday. Data in both the statements I and II together is sufficient to answer the question

Q.56) Ans: (A)
EXP: From I: In that code language rem tez kullu pullu tullu means ‘Sher Singh is my son’ and ‘gullu sullu rullu pullu’ means ‘is he at home’. Therefore, code for'is' is'pullu' in the given coded language from statement I alone. From II: In that code language nel pullu kullu dela means ‘my daughter is Nirmala’ and setha gama lala means ‘sit with me’. There are no common word in both statements therefore we cannot determine meaning of “pullu” is given coded language from statement II alone.

Q.57) Ans: (C)
EXP: I) Ajay stand eleventh from the right end of the line. Vijay stand exactly at the center of the line. There are as money persons to the right of Rohit as there are to the left of Ajay. As we can see in above diagram there are 2 people between Ajay and Vijay. Hence, Data in statement I are sufficient to answer the question. II) Rahul stands fourth from the left end of line. Ajay is the immediate neighbor of Rahul. Only two person stand between Vijay and Ajay. Only two person Stand between Rohit and Ajay. As we can see in above diagram there are 5 person between Rohit and Vijay. Hence, data in statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question. Here, data either the statement I alone or statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question

Q.58) Ans: (A)
EXP: From II: After combining both statement: R> N> Q> P> M> O Hence data in statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question. II) Q is taller than only three persons. P is taller than M but shorter than R. N is shorter than R taller than P. Hence we can’t tell who is second tallest among them. Hence data in statement II alone are not sufficient to answer the question. Hence, The data in statement I alone are sufficient to answer the question while the data in statement I alone are not sufficient to answer the question.

Q.59) Ans: (B)
EXP: m=2 m

Q.60) Ans: (C)
EXP: Square root of 192+ 162 √(617)

Q.61) Ans: (E)
EXP: point M south east respect of point Q

Q.62) Ans: (D)
EXP: Both assumptions I and II are valid. The statement says that people are returning to “what is left of their homes”, from which we can assume that their homes were almost destroyed. Similarly, because the families are returning to the city, we can assume that they were driven away or left when Isis took over their city. However, assumption III is not valid as we cannot assume if all of the residents had left and none of them supported Isis from the given statement. Hence, option D is the correct answer.

Q.63) Ans: (A)
EXP: 122 countries backed the 2017 UN treaty this summer to ban the bomb and later the Nobel Peace Prize grants ICAN. This tells us that the Nobel Peace Prize committee wants to highlights the urgent need to outlaw nuclear weapons. This justifies conclusion 1. Conclusion 2 is irrelevant to the matter stated in the statement. Hence, option A is the correct option

Q.64) Ans: (A)
EXP: Only inference I follows. The given statement says that 17 million children in US suffer from psychiatric disorders but there are less than 60,000 beds to accommodate them. From here we can clearly infer that the US government does not give too much importance to the issue of mental health or the ratio of children suffering and the number of beds available for them wouldn’t have been so poor. Inferences II and III contain extraneous information that cannot be deduced from what is given. Besides mentioning that funding is limited for mental health issues, II also points out that it is limited for medical aid in general, which cannot be inferred from the given statement. Thus, option A is the correct answer.

Q.65) Ans: (D)
EXP: All the inferences follow. The given statement says that recent radar scans have proven without a doubt that there are no chambers behind the walls of Tutankhamun’s burial chamber. Inference I follows because the very fact that such scans were conducted is evidence that people believed there might be hidden chambers behind the walls. Inference II follows directly from the use of the word ‘famed’, meaning famous and well-known, to describe Tutankhamun’s pharaoh. And inference III follows because we have been told about the function of radar scans – they penetrate walls and help figuring out things on the other side. Therefore, option D is the correct answer.

Q.66) Ans: (D)
EXP: Course of action I is not feasible as it is not possible for every person to have a kitchen garden. Courses of action II and III follow because both of them are reasonable solutions to the problem of children being more susceptible to diseases caused by chemical pesticide residues in food. Hence, option(D) is the correct answer.

Q.67) Ans: (A)
EXP: No person is sitting between D and F. Hence, option A. As we know that the both persons whom are sitting at the ends like fruits then two persons are likes fruit. The number of persons is unknown. C likes Banana. It means C is either at the right end or the left end. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. It means clearly the one who likes Apple must be at some ends. As the one who likes Apple is right of B then it must be at the right end then C must be at the left end. Two persons are sitting between C and E. B is neighbor of E. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. If B sits at the immediate left of E then only 5 persons will be in the line but if count in the questions it’s already more than 5 then B must be immediate right of E. Now clearly seven persons are sitting in the line. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. It means three persons are sitting between the one who likes Apple and the who likes Blue. So A likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown so F likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black so G likes Red and E likes Black. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.68) Ans: (C)
EXP: G sits 2nd to the left of E. Hence, option C. As we know that the both persons whom are sitting at the ends like fruits then two persons are likes fruit. The number of persons is unknown. C likes Banana. It means C is either at the right end or the left end. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. It means clearly the one who likes Apple must be at some ends. As the one who likes Apple is right of B then it must be at the right end then C must be at the left end. Two persons are sitting between C and E. B is neighbor of E. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. If B sits at the immediate left of E then only 5 persons will be in the line but if count in the questions it’s already more than 5 then B must be immediate right of E. Now clearly seven persons are sitting in the line. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. It means three persons are sitting between the one who likes Apple and the who likes Blue. So A likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown so F likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black so G likes Red and E likes Black. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.69) Ans: (C)
EXP: A likes Blue color. Hence, option C. As we know that the both persons whom are sitting at the ends like fruits then two persons are likes fruit. The number of persons is unknown. C likes Banana. It means C is either at the right end or the left end. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. It means clearly the one who likes Apple must be at some ends. As the one who likes Apple is right of B then it must be at the right end then C must be at the left end. Two persons are sitting between C and E. B is neighbor of E. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. If B sits at the immediate left of E then only 5 persons will be in the line but if count in the questions it’s already more than 5 then B must be immediate right of E. Now clearly seven persons are sitting in the line. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. It means three persons are sitting between the one who likes Apple and the who likes Blue. So A likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown so F likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black so G likes Red and E likes Black. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.70) Ans: (B)
EXP: E sits exactly in the middle. Hence, option B. As we know that the both persons whom are sitting at the ends like fruits then two persons are likes fruit. The number of persons is unknown. C likes Banana. It means C is either at the right end or the left end. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. It means clearly the one who likes Apple must be at some ends. As the one who likes Apple is right of B then it must be at the right end then C must be at the left end. Two persons are sitting between C and E. B is neighbor of E. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. If B sits at the immediate left of E then only 5 persons will be in the line but if count in the questions it’s already more than 5 then B must be immediate right of E. Now clearly seven persons are sitting in the line. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. It means three persons are sitting between the one who likes Apple and the who likes Blue. So A likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown so F likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black so G likes Red and E likes Black. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.71) Ans: (B)
EXP: Seven persons are sitting in the line. Hence, option B. As we know that the both persons whom are sitting at the ends like fruits then two persons are likes fruit. The number of persons is unknown. C likes Banana. It means C is either at the right end or the left end. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. It means clearly the one who likes Apple must be at some ends. As the one who likes Apple is right of B then it must be at the right end then C must be at the left end. Two persons are sitting between C and E. B is neighbor of E. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. If B sits at the immediate left of E then only 5 persons will be in the line but if count in the questions it’s already more than 5 then B must be immediate right of E. Now clearly seven persons are sitting in the line. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. It means three persons are sitting between the one who likes Apple and the who likes Blue. So A likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown so F likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black so G likes Red and E likes Black. Here is the final arrangement:

Q.72) Ans: (B)
EXP: 

Q.73) Ans: (B)
EXP: 

Q.74) Ans: (B)
EXP: 

Q.75) Ans: (D)
EXP: 

Q.76) Ans: (C)
EXP: 

Q.77) Ans: (C)
EXP: Symbols used are as follows: Option C is the correct answer. Ram’s gender is not known, Ram can be either male or female. Ram can be either Father-in-law or Mother-in-law to Lavanya.

Q.78) Ans: (D)
EXP: Symbols used are as follows: Option D is the correct answer. Gender of 3 members are not known so, it is not convenient to know the number of male members in the family.

Q.79) Ans: (C)
EXP: Symbols used are as follows: Option C is the correct answer. Paternal aunt is Father’s sister. Megha’s paternal aunt is Lavanya.

Q.80) Ans: (C)
EXP: Symbols used are as follows: Option C is the correct answer. As Mahesh is a male and is married to Sucheta(Female. So, Sucheta is grand mother to Supriya.

Q.81) Ans: (B)
EXP: Months having exactly 30 days: April, June, September and November. i) P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. ii) Both P and V travels in a same month. iii) T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. (so, there are 2 possible cases). iv) No one travels between V and T. v) Only 4 persons T and Q. Case 1: Case 2: vi) Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. Case 1: Case 2: vii) S drives Breeza on 30th but not in April. Case 1: Case 2: viii) Only 3 persons travel on each particular date. Case 1: Case 2: ix) One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. (so, case 1 gets eliminated as it does not satisfy the condition). Therefore, after filling the remaining data, 11) Option b) is the correct answer as R travels to Delhi on 2nd april.

Q.82) Ans: (C)
EXP: Months having exactly 30 days: April, June, September and November. i) P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. ii) Both P and V travels in a same month. iii) T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. (so, there are 2 possible cases). iv) No one travels between V and T. v) Only 4 persons T and Q. Case 1: Case 2: vi) Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. Case 1: Case 2: vii) S drives Breeza on 30th but not in April. Case 1: Case 2: viii) Only 3 persons travel on each particular date. Case 1: Case 2: ix) One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. (so, case 1 gets eliminated as it does not satisfy the condition). Therefore, after filling the remaining data, Option c) is the correct answer as P travels immediately after one who drives Breeza.

Q.83) Ans: (D)
EXP: Months having exactly 30 days: April, June, September and November. i) P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. ii) Both P and V travels in a same month. iii) T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. (so, there are 2 possible cases). iv) No one travels between V and T. v) Only 4 persons T and Q. Case 1: Case 2: vi) Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. Case 1: Case 2: vii) S drives Breeza on 30th but not in April. Case 1: Case 2: viii) Only 3 persons travel on each particular date. Case 1: Case 2: ix) One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. (so, case 1 gets eliminated as it does not satisfy the condition). Therefore, after filling the remaining data, Option a) is the correct answer as no on travels between S and P.

Q.84) Ans: (A)
EXP: Months having exactly 30 days: April, June, September and November. i) P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. ii) Both P and V travels in a same month. iii) T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. (so, there are 2 possible cases). iv) No one travels between V and T. v) Only 4 persons T and Q. Case 1: Case 2: vi) Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. Case 1: Case 2: vii) S drives Breeza on 30th but not in April. Case 1: Case 2: viii) Only 3 persons travel on each particular date. Case 1: Case 2: ix) One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. (so, case 1 gets eliminated as it does not satisfy the condition). Therefore, after filling the remaining data, Option e) is the correct answer as no one travels on 30th April.

Q.85) Ans: (E)
EXP: Months having exactly 30 days: April, June, September and November. i) P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. ii) Both P and V travels in a same month. iii) T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. (so, there are 2 possible cases). iv) No one travels between V and T. v) Only 4 persons T and Q. Case 1: Case 2: vi) Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. Case 1: Case 2: vii) S drives Breeza on 30th but not in April. Case 1: Case 2: viii) Only 3 persons travel on each particular date. Case 1: Case 2: ix) One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. (so, case 1 gets eliminated as it does not satisfy the condition). Therefore, after filling the remaining data, 15) Option e) is the correct answer as no one travels on 30th April.

Q.86) Ans: (E)
EXP: We need to show that growth of algae does not decrease the speed of water flow. Choice(A) talks about growth of algae but does not indicate anything about the change in the speed of flow after the growth of algae. Choice(B) talks about the depth but not speed. Choice(C) talks about how flow helps in propagation of algae but does not talk about how the growth of algae affects the speed of flow. Choice(D) talks about the number of varieties of algae that are housed in fast flowing water but not about the population of algae. Choice(E) states that the speed of the rivers which house the thickest population of algae is the highest. This goes against the argument that growth of algae reduces speed of water.

Q.87) Ans: (E)
EXP: The professional who has just been recruited needs to be evaluated over a period of time to know if he/she suits the work environment of the company. So, I is implicit. The statement mentions that the individual's capabilities shall be judged before confirmation. Hence, II is implicit as well.

Q.88) Ans: (B)
EXP: Since the three countries are leading the economic growth of the whole world, they will shape the destiny of Asia. Hence, II is the cause and I is its effect.

Q.89) Ans: (B)
EXP: The very first line of passage says that number of freelancers is at steep rise in India. Probably it can be inferred that people does not like 9-5 job. But nowhere directly mentioned in passage that people does not like 9-5 job hence statement is probably true.

Q.90) Ans: (C)
EXP: In line 9th-10th it is mentioned that if gross income is more than 10 lakh then they are liable to pay service tax. Gross income and net income are different. Gross income is total revenue received and net income is whatever left after the business expense and some tax-free investments etc. If a person is having net income more than 10 lakh then their gross income is even more than that. Therefore they will come in the tax bracket. But here, the type of income is not mentioned. Hence, option C is the correct response.

Q.91) Ans: (A)
EXP: 27, 34, 51, 75, 107, 147, 195 First difference:+8,+16,+24,+32,+40, +48 Second difference:+8,+8,+8,+8,+8 So series: 27,(35), 51, 75, 107, 147, 195 So 34 is wrong number in the series.

Q.92) Ans: (E)
EXP: Pattern: ×0.5-0.5, ×1-1, ×2-2, ×4-4, ×8-8, ×16-16 So series: 10, 4.5, 3.5, 5, 16,(120), 1904 So 122 is wrong number in the series.

Q.93) Ans: (B)
EXP: Pattern:-(112+1),-(102-1),-(92+1),-(82-1), -(72+1),-(62-1) So series: 800, 678, 579, 497, 434,(384), 349 So 385 is wrong number in the series.

Q.94) Ans: (D)
EXP: Pattern: ×12, ×10, ×8, ×6, ×4, ×2 So series is 1, 12, 120, 960,(5760), 23040, 46080 So 5780 is wrong number in the series.

Q.95) Ans: (C)
EXP: Pattern:+2,+4,+8,+16,+32,+64 So series is 7, 11, 19, 35,(67), 131 So 68 is wrong number in the series

Q.96) Ans: (B)
EXP: Let CP= x MP be y So, 78% of x= 60% of y 39x/50= 3y/5 x= 10y/13 And, 60% of 140% of y – x= 184 21y/25 – x= 184 (273y – 250y)/325=184 23y= 184 x 325 y= 2600 Thus, CP= x= 10y/13= Rs. 2000 So option(b) is the correct answer.

Q.97) Ans: (A)
EXP: Let the cost price of product A be Rs. 4y Then, the cost price of product B be Rs. 3y Selling price of product A at 8% loss= Rs. 2208 So, 0.92 x 4y= 2208 =4y= Rs. 2400 So, the cost price of product B = Rs. 1800 Selling price of product B at 8% loss= 0.92 x 1800= Rs. 1656 So, selling price of product A at ‘x%’ profit= Rs. 4344 – 1656= Rs. 2688 = = =24x= 288 = x= 12% So option(a) is the correct answer.

Q.98) Ans: (A)
EXP: Let their initial investments per month be x, 2x and 4x respectively Therefore, of their investments during the first 6 months= x: 2x: 4x Total investment for 6 months will be 6x, 12x, 24x respectively For the next 6 months, Total investment of Amit=(3x/2) x 6= 9x Total investment of Bharat= 6x x 6= 36x Total investment of Chirag= 3x x 6= 18x Therefore, at the end of the year, Total investment of Amit= 15x Total investment of Bharat= 48x Total investment of Chirag= 42x Ratio of their profits will be the same as ratio of their total investments, Therefore, Ratio of their profits= 15: 48x: 42x= 5: 16: 14 So option(a) is the correct answer.

Q.99) Ans: (E)
EXP: Now, 10 Lt. of the mixture was taken out in the same ratio 4:1. After adding 10 Lt. of mixture ratio of A and B becomes 2:3. As, we are adding B in the mixture the quantity of A will remain same. Now we have to make A same. 5= 10Lt. 1= 2Lt. Final capacity of mixture= 5\*2= 10 Lt. As, 10 Lt. of mixture was removed. ∴Initial Quantity of mixture= 10+ 10= 20Lt. Initial quantity of A=(4\*20)/5= 16 Lt.

Q.100) Ans: (B)
EXP: Let the years after which government introduced the scheme be x So, total Interest Akash paid in 8 yrs=16680-12000=4680, Now, SI=PRT/100 4680= 12000(6\*x+ 3\*(8-x))/100 4680= 12000(6x+ 24-3x)/100 4680= 120(3x+24) x= 5 year

Q.101) Ans: (B)
EXP: No. of boys& girl in School U respectively, Boys= 1500×12/(12+13)= 720 Girls= 1500×13/(12+13)= 780 Boys got scholarship= 25% of 720= 180 Total boy& girls got scholarship= 20% of 1500= 300 So girls got scholarship= 300-180= 120 So girls didn’t get scholarship from school U= 780-120= 660

Q.102) Ans: (D)
EXP: passed student from school Q= 1500×8/(7+8)= 800 Passed boys= 60% of 800= 480 So passed girls= 800-480= 320 % girls passed= 80% So Total girls= 320 × 100/80= 400 So number boys in school Q= 1500-400= 1100

Q.103) Ans: (A)
EXP: In school P boys: girl= 7:9 Difference of boy& girls= 180 So total student in school= 180×(7+9)/(9-7)= 1440 Student didn’t get scholarship=(100-65)% of 1440= 504

Q.104) Ans: (D)
EXP: total students in school R= 540×100/60= 900 Boys= 900×4/(5+4)= 400 Girls= 900-400= 500 Boys received Scholarship= 20% of 400= 80 So girls received scholarship= 540-80= 460 Required% of girl= 460×100/500= 92%

Q.105) Ans: (E)
EXP: passed students in school S= 1800× 5/(5+4)= 1000 Student got scholarship= 20% of 1000= 200 So number of girls got scholarship= 200-120= 80

Q.106) Ans: (E)
EXP: Quantity I. 2x2+4x+25x+50 2x(x+ 2)+ 25(x+2) (2x+25)(x+2) x=-25/2,-2 Quantity II. 3y2+ 9y+9y+27 3y(y+3)+ 9(y+3) (y+3)(3y+9) y=-3,-3

Q.107) Ans: (B)
EXP: Quantity I: No. of cubes=(3cm x 30cm x 30cm)/(3mm x 3mm x 3mm) =(30mm x 300mm x 300mm)/(3mm x 3mm x 3mm) = 1,00,000 cubes Quantity II: No. of cubes=(30cm x 30cm x 30cm)/(3mm x 30mm x 30mm) =(300mm x 300mm x 300mm)/(3mm x 30mm x 30mm) = 10,000 cuboids So, Quantity I> Quantity II

Q.108) Ans: (B)
EXP: Quantity I: Compound interest earned by Ram = Quantity II: Simple interest earned by Rahim = So, Quantity II>Quantity I So option(b) is the correct answer.

Q.109) Ans: (A)
EXP: Quantity I: Let the present ages be 5x, 7x and 8x years respectively ⇒(5x – 7)+(7x-7)+(8x-7)= 79 ⇒ 20x= 100 ⇒ x= 5 ∴Present age of Deepak- 8x=40 years respectively Quantity II: Let the mother’s present age be x years ⇒Daughter’s present age= 3x/5 ∴(3x/5+ 7)= 2/3(x+ 7) ⇒ 3(3x+ 35)= 2× 5(x+7) ⇒ 9x+ 105= 10x+ 70 ⇒ x= 35 ∴ Present age of mother is 35 years Now, comparing 40> 35 Thus, Quantity 1 ≥ Quantity 2

Q.110) Ans: (C)
EXP: I. Total time taken=(160/64+ 160/80) =9/2hrs Then avg speed=320/(9/2) =320\*2/9= 71.11km/hr. II.(2\*60\*90)/150=72km/hr. Quantity II> Quantity I

Q.111) Ans: (E)
EXP: C.P. of the product in the year 2013= INR 560000 Overhead expenditure in the year 2013= INR 80000 ⇒Total cost of the product in the year 2013= INR 640000 S.P. of the product in the year 2013= INR 800000 ∴Profit in the year 2013= INR 160000 ⇒Profit percentage of the year 2013= C.P. of the product in the year 2015= INR 480000 Overhead expenditure in the year 2015= INR 200000 ⇒Total cost of the product in the year 2015= INR 680000 If the profit margin is 25% then new S.P. of 2015= 125% of 680000 ⇒New S.P. of product in 2015= INR 850000

Q.112) Ans: (A)
EXP: C.P. of the product in the year 2011= INR 340000 Overhead expenditure in the year 2011= INR 120000 ⇒Total cost of the product in the year 2011= INR 460000 S.P. of the product in the year 2011= INR 640000 ∴Profit in the year 2011 on one product= INR 180000 It sells 15 products in 2011 ⇒Total revenue earned by company in year 2011= 180000 × 15= 2700000 Out of total revenue earned, the company donated 1/9th to charity. ∴Amount given to charity= 1/9th of 2700000 ⇒Amount given to charity= INR 3,00,000

Q.113) Ans: (C)
EXP: C.P. of the product in the year 2012= INR 420000 Overhead expenditure in the year 2012= INR 100000 ⇒Total cost of the product in the year 2012= INR 520000 S.P. of the product in the year 2012= INR 720000 ∴Profit in the year 2012= INR 200000 C.P. of the product in the year 2014= INR 460000 Overhead expenditure in the year 2014= INR 140000 ⇒Total cost of the product in the year 2014= INR 600000 S.P. of the product in the year 2014= INR 680000 ∴Profit in the year 2014= INR 80000 Now, Required percentage=(200000– 80000)/80000 × 100= 150% more

Q.114) Ans: (B)
EXP: In the year 2011, C.P. of the product= INR 340000 S.P. of the product= INR 640000 Profit= 300000 Profit%= In the year 2012, C.P. of the product= INR 420000 S.P. of the product= INR 720000 Profit= 300000 Profit%= In the year 2013, C.P. of the product= INR 560000 S.P. of the product= INR 800000 Profit= 240000 Profit%= In the year 2014, C.P. of the product= INR 460000 S.P. of the product= INR 680000 Profit= 220000 Profit%= In the year 2015, C.P. of the product= INR 480000 S.P. of the product= INR 860000 Profit= 380000 Profit%= In the year 2016, C.P. of the product= INR 520000 S.P. of the product= INR 780000 Profit= 260000 Profit%= Hence, in the year 2013 company had the lowest profit percentage.

Q.115) Ans: (D)
EXP: Overhead expenditure of 2016= INR 160000 In the year 2017, the overhead expenditure of the product increase by 45% of that of 2016 ⇒The overhead expenditure of 2017= 145% of 160000 ⇒The overhead expenditure of 2017= INR 232000 Overhead expenditure of 2012= INR 120000 Required difference= 232000-120000= INR 112000 Now, required percentage= = 93.33%= %

Q.116) Ans: (B)
EXP: Let the work done by Alekh, Alia and Aman in 1 day be x. y and z respectively (Alekh’s 4 days+ Alia’s 5 days+ Aman’s 4 days) work= 1 (Alekh+ Alia) 4 days+(Alia+ Aman) 1 day + Aman 3 days work= 1.....(1) From question: Work done by Alekh and Alia in 1 day= 1/5 Work done by Alia and Aman in 1 day= 1/15 In equation(1) 1/5 × 4+ 1/15 × 1+ 3z= 1 4/5+ 1/15+ 3z= 1 12/15+ 1/15+ 3z= 1 13/15+ 3z= 1 3z= 1-13/15 3z= 2/15 z= 2/45 Aman can do work in 5 days y+ z= 1/15 y+ 2/45= 1/15 y= 1/15 – 2/45 y= 3/45 – 2/45 y= 1/45 Days taken be Alia= 45 days

Q.117) Ans: (B)
EXP: Side of square= √3969= 63 cm Radius of larger circle= 1/3\* 63= 21 cm Radius of smaller circle= 3/7\* 21= 9 cm Circumference of smaller circle= 2\* 22/7\* 9= 56 cm(approximate)

Q.118) Ans: (E)
EXP: Speed of Pawan express= Let, length of the platform= x m And, length of the Toofan express= y m So, So, x= Speed of Toofan Express= So, =y=1065 – 730= 335 m Therefore, required time= So option(e) is the correct answer.

Q.119) Ans: (D)
EXP: CP of rasgulla= Rs. 9( since profit is 66.66 %) Now by allegation (9- 3x)/(7x – 9)= 3/5 X= 2 So, price of sugar= 7x= 14 Rs./kg.

Q.120) Ans: (C)
EXP: Price of mango becomes Ã 200-Ã 240( After 20% increase) Price of Orange becomes Ã 100 Ã 125(After 25% increase) Before increases price his expenditure was Ã 200\*10+100\*5= 2500 After increases in the price Ã 240\*10+125\*5=3025 Percentage Increase Ã =(3025-2500)×100/2500= 21%

Q.121) Ans: (A)
EXP: The Headquarters of the Arab League is located in Tahrir Square district of Cairo, Egypt. It was founded in Cairo in March 1945. The League of Arab States, or Arab League, is a voluntary association of countries whose peoples are mainly Arabic speaking or where Arabic is an official language. Its stated aims are to strengthen ties among member states, coordinate their policies and direct them towards a common good. It has 22 members including Palestine, which the League regards as an independent state. The 22 members of the Arab League as of 2018 were Algeria, Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

Q.122) Ans: (A)
EXP: The liver is the only organ of the body which has the capacity to regenerate. The liver is one of the largest organs in the body. It has many important metabolic functions. It converts the nutrients in our diets into substances that the body can use, stores these substances, and supplies cells with them when needed. It also takes up toxic substances and converts them into harmless substances or makes sure they are released from the body. The liver carries out many important functions, such as making important blood proteins and bile, changing food into energy, and cleaning alcohol and poisons from the blood.

Q.123) Ans: (C)
EXP: Committee led by Punjab National Bank Chairman Sunil Mehta on bad loans resolution has recommended a five-pronged strategy Project 'SASHAKT' to deal with Non-performing Assets in the country's banking system. So, option C is correct.

Q.124) Ans: (C)
EXP: Vidyadhar Bhattacharya(1693-1751) was the chief architect and city planner of Jaipur, Rajasthan. A Bengali architect, who hailed from Naihati of present-day West Bengal, he was already working in the Amer state as Junior Auditor when approached by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II in 1727 to build one of the earliest planned cities of India.

Q.125) Ans: (C)
EXP: Rohingya are an ethnic group, largely comprising Muslims, who predominantly live in the Western Myanmar province of Rakhine. They speak a dialect of Bengali, as opposed to the commonly spoken Burmese language

Q.126) Ans: (C)
EXP: Kylian Mbappé Lottin is a French professional footballer who plays as a forward for Ligue 1 club Paris Saint-Germain and the France national team.

Q.127) Ans: (C)
EXP: The ratio of liquid assets to net demand and time liabilities(NDTL) is called SLR. It is the percentage of NDTL which all the scheduled banks are required to keep with themselves in the form of cash, gold and government approved securities. It is decided by the Reserve Bank Of India and changes from time to time.

Q.128) Ans: (C)
EXP: India is the global host nation for the 43rd edition of World Environment Day(WED-2018) event. The World Environment Day is a platform for increasing awareness and propagating the need for protecting the environment.

Q.129) Ans: (C)
EXP: The UN Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises(MSME) Day is observed every year on 27th June to recognize the importance of MSME in achieving sustainable development goals and in promoting innovation, creativity and sustainable work for all.

Q.130) Ans: (E)
EXP: The Reserve Bank of India(RBI) has considered the recommendations of YM Deosthalee committee to set up a Public Credit Registry(PCR) in a modular and phased manner. The PCR is an information repository that collates all loan information of individuals and corporate borrowers.

Q.131) Ans: (B)
EXP: Assam govt. has made Asian Games medalist Hima Das(Indian sprinter) as the Sports Ambassador of the state. Recently, Hima won 3 medals in concluded Asian Games.

Q.132) Ans: (A)
EXP: Explanation: The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank(AIIB) is a multilateral development bank(MDB) conceived for the 21st century. The Bank's foundation is built on the lessons of experience of existing MDBs and the private sector. Its modus operandi will be lean, clean and green: it is situated in Beijing, China.

Q.133) Ans: (B)
EXP: On 4th June 2018, Reserve Bank of India conducted Financial Literacy Week to focus on creating awareness among customers of banks. The theme of the Financial Literacy Week is ‘Customer Protection’.

Q.134) Ans: (A)
EXP: On August 6, 1945, the American bomber Enola Gay dropped a five-ton bomb over the Japanese city of Hiroshima. A blast equivalent to the power of 15,000 tons of TNT reduced four square miles of the city to ruins and immediately killed 80,000 people. The United States dropped nuclear weapons on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on August 6 and 9, 1945, respectively.

Q.135) Ans: (C)
EXP: INTERPOL is the International Criminal Police Organization, more commonly known as Interpol is the international organization that facilitates international police cooperation. It has a membership of police forces in 192 countries(as of 2017). The headquarter of INTERPOL is located at Lyon, in France.

Q.136) Ans: (B)
EXP: India and Russia have concluded price negotiations for the procurement of five regiments of Russian-made S-400 Triumf advanced Air Defense Systems(NATO reporting name: SA-21 Growler) intended for service in the Indian military.

Q.137) Ans: (D)
EXP: HDFC(Housing and Development Finance Corporation) is the biggest and best bank of India in terms of market capitalization followed by axis bank and ICICI Bank.

Q.138) Ans: (C)
EXP: JALLIKATTU is an event held in Tamil Nadu as a part of Pongal celebrations on Mattu Pongal day. Bulls are bred specifically by people of the village for the event and attended mainly by many villages' temple bulls(koil kaalai). A temple bull is like the head of all cattle in a village; special rituals will be performed for this temple bull during important days.

Q.139) Ans: (A)
EXP: Renowned Hindustani classical vocalist ‘Kishori Amonkar’ passed away in Mumbai, Maharashtra. Note: Kishori Amonkar received a plethora of awards, including the Padma Bhushan(1987), Padma Vibhushan(2002), Sangeet Natak Akademi Award(1985) and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship for 2009.

Q.140) Ans: (D)
EXP: India fires the high thrust cryogenic engine CE-20 to launch GSLV Mk III in its first experimental flight from Sriharikota+ on Monday, it will propel ISRO's biggest dream albeit about 13 years later than it was originally planned. ISRO would have used the CE-20 powered GSLV Mk III

Q.141) Ans: (C)
EXP: Bangalore Tiger: How Indian Tech Upstart Wipro Is Rewriting the Rules of Global Competition is a book published in 2006 by McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc, New York City, and authored by Steve Hamm. It focuses on what it calls the"new breed of transnationals" who have brought about cause for"multinationals" to"beware".

Q.142) Ans: (B)
EXP: Elattuvalapil Sreedharan is a retired Indian Engineering Service officer popularly known as the"Metro Man". He has been invited to the United Nation’s High Level Advisory Group on Sustainable transport.

Q.143) Ans: (C)
EXP: The International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons is a global civil society coalition working to promote adherence to and full implementation of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The headquarter of ICAN is in Geneva, Switzerland.

Q.144) Ans: (D)
EXP: Solution: Full form of CVV is-"Card Verification Value" on your credit card or debit card is a 3 digit number on VISA, MasterCard etc. CVV is the system by which credit card companies are introducing to help protect against online transactions fraud.

Q.145) Ans: (D)
EXP: YES Bank will roll out a capacity building project with farmers in Haryana and Rajasthan under its'Livelihood and water security' CSR initiative. The program will be rolled out initially across 15 districts(Haryana -8 and Rajasthan-7).

Q.146) Ans: (C)
EXP: In 2010, South Africa was invited to join BRIC, an international organization of the fast-growing nations which included Brazil, Russia, India, and China. South Africa agreed to formally join making the group-BRICS.

Q.147) Ans: (B)
EXP: National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) was incorporated in the year 2005. The organisation was set up in the supervision of the central bank of India that is Reserve Bank of India. RBI has initiated the idea of setting up the NPCI with the objective of encouraging the Retail Payment System in the nation.

Q.148) Ans: (C)
EXP: RISE stands for Revitalising of Infrastructure and Systems in Education. RISE scheme was announced in Union Budget 2017-18. It aims to lend low-cost funds to government higher educational institutions. Under it, all centrally-funded institutes(CFIs), including central universities, IITs, IIMs, NITs and IISERs can borrow from a Rs 1,00,000 crore corpus over the course of 4 years.

Q.149) Ans: (B)
EXP: Corporation Bank is a public-sector banking company headquartered in Mangalore, India. The bank has a pan-Indian presence.

Q.150) Ans: (A)
EXP: Sudha Balakrishnan has been appointed as the Reserve Bank of India’s first Chief Financial Officer(CFO).

Q.151) Ans: (C)
EXP: Moon Jae-in is a South Korean politician serving as the 19th and current President of South Korea since 2017. The President of the Republic of Korea is the chairperson of the cabinet, the chief executive of the government, commander-in-chief of the armed forces, and the head of state of South Korea.

Q.152) Ans: (C)
EXP: Patratu Thermal Power Station is a coal-based thermal power plant located near Patratu town in Ramgarh district in the Indian state of Jharkhand. The power plant is operated by the Jharkhand State Electricity Board. It has an installed capacity of 840 MW. The generating units of the power plant are very old and are operating at around 10% PLF, generating about 110 MW per day.

Q.153) Ans: (D)
EXP: The mascot for the Olympics is named Miraitowa, and the Paralympic mascot is Someity. Miraitowa is a combination of the Japanese words for future and eternity; Someity comes from a popular cherry blossom variety"Someiyoshino" and echoes the English phrase"so mighty."

Q.154) Ans: (E)
EXP: The Asian Development Bank is a regional development bank established on 19 December 1966, which is headquartered in the Ortigas Centre located in the city of Mandaluyong, Metro Manila, Philippines.

Q.155) Ans: (D)
EXP: A Sukanya Samriddhi Account can be opened any time after the birth of a girl till she turns 10, with a minimum deposit of Rs 250. The Government of India(GoI) has reduced the minimum annual deposit requirement for accounts under Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 250.

Q.156) Ans: (C)
EXP: \* Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 25th Dec 2018 inaugurated the 4.94 km long Bogibeel Bridge in Assam. \* It is India’s longest rail-cum-road road bridge, on the river Bramhaputra. \* The bridge is constructed at an estimated cost of 5,800 crore rupees. \* It is situated 17 km downstream of Dibrugarh city in Assam.

Q.157) Ans: (C)
EXP: UNESCO-approved Rani Ki Vav at Patan in Gujarat was set to get the “cleanest monument award“.

Q.158) Ans: (C)
EXP: The headquarter of Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development(OECD) is in Paris, France.

Q.159) Ans: (D)
EXP: Nokrek National Park, the core area of Nokrek Biosphere Reserve, is a national park located approximately 2 km from Tura Peak in West Garo Hills district of Meghalaya, India. UNESCO added this National park to its list of Biosphere Reserves in May 2009.

Q.160) Ans: (C)
EXP: The Republic of Zambia is a landlocked country in Southern Africa. The capital city is Lusaka and currency is Kwacha.

Q.161) Ans: (D)
EXP: In a historic tax reform, the goods and services tax was rolled out on 1st July, 2017, subsuming almost all major indirect taxes like Central Excise Duty, Service Tax, VAT, CST, entertainment tax, Octroi, luxury tax, a large number of cesses/surcharges and various other state and central levies on goods and services.

Q.162) Ans: (C)
EXP: On May 4, 2017, Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu released 3rd edition of the Swachh Survekshan which ranked 434 Indian cities on various cleanliness parameters. Indore in Madya Pradesh emerged as the cleanliest city and Gonda in Uttar Pradesh ranked at the bottom as the dirtiest city. Quality council of India deployed 421 assessors for on the spot assessment of 17,500 locations in 434 cities and town.]

Q.163) Ans: (E)
EXP: Recently UNESCO accorded Ahmedabad the tag of World Heritage city. Hence it will be a part of world’s list of Heritage sites. Ahmedabad is the first city in India to get this status

Q.164) Ans: (A)
EXP: The Salar Jung Museum is an art museum located at Dar-ul-Shifa, on the southern bank of the Musi River in the city of Hyderabad, Telangana, India. It is one of the three National Museums of India.

Q.165) Ans: (B)
EXP: \* India had dragged the US to the World Trade Organisation's dispute settlement mechanism over the imposition of import duties on steel and aluminium. \* India has stated that the decision will impact exports of these products to the US and it is not in compliance with global trade norms.

Q.166) Ans: (A)
EXP: The Union Minister ‘Harsh Vardhan’ has launched a first ever Industry-Academia mission"National Biopharma Mission" to accelerate biopharmaceutical development in India. Note: Under the Mission, the Ministry launched a programme named Innovate in India(i3) to create an enabling ecosystem to promote entrepreneurship and indigenous manufacturing in the sector.

Q.167) Ans: (D)
EXP: Ayushman Bharat is National Health Protection Scheme, which will cover over 10 crore poor and vulnerable families (approximately 50 crore beneficiaries) providing coverage upto 5 lakh rupees per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization. Ayushman Bharat- National Health Protection Mission will subsume the on-going centrally sponsored schemes -Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana(RSBY) and the Senior Citizen Health Insurance Scheme (SCHIS).

Q.168) Ans: (B)
EXP: Sai Praneeth is an Indian sports player associated with Badminton. He has won various championships like BWF super series Singapore open 2017, BWF Grand Prix Thailand open 2017.

Q.169) Ans: (D)
EXP: India finalised an Open Skies Agreement with Japan, allowing designated airlines of both signatory countries to operate freely. This is likely to be formalised during Japanese Prime Minister Shino Abe’s visit to India later this month. The agreement may allow airlines from Japan to fly directly to Chennai and Bengaluru. All Nippon Airways, Japan Airlines and Air India are the only carriers that connect the two countries, now.

Q.170) Ans: (E)
EXP: Indian Air Force(IAF) has participated in Exercise Pitch Black 2018 at Darwin, Australia. Sixteen different nations from across the globe, including French Air Force(FAF) participated in this exercise.

Q.171) Ans: (B)
EXP: Prime Minister has inaugurated the first ever All India Institute of Ayurveda(AIIA) in New Delhi. AIIA has been set up along the line of AIIMS as an apex institute under the Ministry of AYUSH. The institute will bring synergy between traditional wisdom of Ayurveda and modern diagnostic tools and technology.

Q.172) Ans: (A)
EXP: Santosh Yadav is an Indian mountaineer. She is the first woman in the world to climb Mount Everest twice, and the first woman to successfully climb Mt Everest from Kangshung Face. She first climbed the peak in May 1992 and then did it again in May 1993.

Q.173) Ans: (B)
EXP: Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) summit 2018 was held in the city of Qingdao, China. Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) summit 2017 was held in Astana, Kazakhstan. India and Pakistan were admitted as full members of the organisation at the Summit in 2017

Q.174) Ans: (A)
EXP: ICICI Bank has launched a cross-border remittance facility that can be used by NRIs for sending money to their friends and family in India through social media like WhatsApp and e-mail. Christened'Social Pay', a sender needs to register on the remittance service application Money2India to transfer money to someone in India.

Q.175) Ans: (E)
EXP: Section 6 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 was amended to include the definitions of electronic and truncated cheque.

Q.176) Ans: (D)
EXP: According to the Public Affairs Index 2018 released by the think tank Public Affairs Centre(PAC), Kerala stands as the best-governed state in the country among large states followed by Tamil Nadu.

Q.177) Ans: (E)
EXP: Marginal Standing Facility is a new Liquidity Adjustment Facility(LAF) window created by Reserve Bank of India in its credit policy of May 2011. MSF is the rate at which the banks are able to borrow overnight funds from RBI against the approved government securities.

Q.178) Ans: (B)
EXP: Commerce Min approves 15 projects for infrastructure under TIES. TIES is Trade Infrastructure for Export Scheme. Here, TIES is related to export.

Q.179) Ans: (C)
EXP: A syndicated loan, also known as a syndicated bank facility, is financing offered by a group of lenders – referred to as a syndicate – who work together to provide funds for a single borrower. The borrower can be a corporation, a large project or sovereignty, such as a government.

Q.180) Ans: (C)
EXP: The Ramon Magsaysay Award 2018 winner were Sonam Wangchuk and Bharat Vatwani.

Q.181) Ans: (C)
EXP: The Union government has constituted a high-level committee headed by the Union Home Secretary Rajiv Gauba to suggest laws against mob lynching and violence.

Q.182) Ans: (C)
EXP: Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill, 2018 which will empower authorities to attach and confiscate properties and assets of economic offenders like loan defaulters who flee the country. A fugitive offender term applies only to those who owe or more than Rs. 100 crores in the domestic territory of India.

Q.183) Ans: (A)
EXP: Why I Am a Hindu is a 2018 book by Indian politician Shashi Tharoor. In the book, Tharoor writes about the history of Hinduism and its core tenets, as well as socio-cultural developments in India that relate to the religion, while elucidating his own religious convictions.

Q.184) Ans: (D)
EXP: In a bid to take banking services to the remote locations of the country, the Reserve Bank of India has permitted the opening of mini branches or banking outlets across the country for all domestic scheduled commercial banks except Regional Rural Banks without having to take permission from the regulator on a case by case basis. Part-time Banking Outlet- is one which opens for at least five days a week for at least four hours a day. The RBI has clarified that ATM kiosks, cash depositing counters and mobile branches will not be treated as banking outlets.

Q.185) Ans: (B)
EXP: Section 22 in BANKING REGULATION ACT,1949.(1) Save as hereinafter provided, no company shall carry on banking business in India unless it holds a licence issued in that behalf by the Reserve Bank and any such licence may be issued subject to such conditions as the Reserve Bank may think fit to impose.

Q.186) Ans: (C)
EXP: Payment banks are allowed to accept demand deposits and issue debit cards and can also distribute non risk sharing financial products like mutual funds and insurance products but prohibited from giving loans and issuing credit cards.

Q.187) Ans: (C)
EXP: \* Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Bansagar canal project in Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh. \* Bansagar Dam project is a joint venture(JV) between Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar Governments. \* It is multipurpose river valley project built on Son River situated in Ganges Basin in Madhya Pradesh.

Q.188) Ans: (C)
EXP: Repo rate is the rate at which the central bank lends to the commercial banks. Hike in interest rates will lead to a decline in borrowing by the commercial banks and this rise in Repo rate will be effective only when commercial banks increase their base rates. Current Repo Rate is 6.25%

Q.189) Ans: (A)
EXP: Croatia’s Luka Modric won the Golden ball. France won FIFA Football World Cup 2018 by defeating Croatia(4-2) in the final in Moscow.

Q.190) Ans: (D)
EXP: Birmingham (England) will host the Commonwealth Games in 2022. Earlier, the 2022 Commonwealth Games were originally given to Durban(South African city) in 2015, but the city was stripped of the event because of financial difficulties.

Q.191) Ans: (B)
EXP: M.A. Chidambaram Stadium is situated in Chennai, Tamil Nadu.

Q.192) Ans: (C)
EXP: Hirakud Dam is built across the Mahanadi River in Sambalpur Odisha. Behind the dam extends a lake, Hirakud Reservoir, 55 km(34 mi) long. It is one of the first major multipurpose river valley projects started after India's independence.

Q.193) Ans: (C)
EXP: Haldia refinery is located in Haldia near Kolkata, West Bengal.

Q.194) Ans: (E)
EXP: The headquarter of Jana Small Finance Bank is in Bengaluru, Karnataka. Jana Small Finance Bank Limited started its operations as a small finance bank in March 2018. Janalakshmi Financial Services Private Limited, Bengaluru was one of the ten applicants which were issued an in-principle approval for setting up a small finance bank, as announced in the on September 2015. Tagline- Paise Ke Kadar

Q.195) Ans: (A)
EXP: Tech giant Microsoft’s India-born CEO Satya Nadella’s first book in he which explores his personal journey, the company’s ongoing transformation and the wave of technological change will hit the stands later this month. The book titled ‘Hit Refresh’ carries a foreword by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and will go on sale globally on September 26

Q.196) Ans: (B)
EXP: The Suez Canal(Egyptian Arabic: ةانق سيوسلا Kanāt El Sewēs) is an artificial sea-level waterway in Egypt, connecting the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea through the Isthmus of Suez.

Q.197) Ans: (D)
EXP: The All India Football Federation(AIFF) has named India Captain Sunil Chhetri as the AIFF Player of the Year in the Federation’s Executive Committee Meeting in Mumbai. Recently, Chhetri became the 2nd Indian footballer to play 100 international games after Baichung Bhutia.

Q.198) Ans: (B)
EXP: Guru Shikhar, a peak in the Arbuda Mountains of Rajasthan is the highest point of the Aravalli Range. It rises to an elevation of 1,722 meters. It is 15 km from Mount Abu and a road from there leads almost to the top of the mountain.

Q.199) Ans: (C)
EXP: The book'Our Trees Still Grow In Dehra' is authored by Ruskin Bond. Though It is a collection of short stories by Ruskin Bond each story in very closely interlinked with the other. In this book, Ruskin traces his life from childhood through teenage to adulthood.

Q.200) Ans: (C)
EXP: Repo rate is the rate at which the central bank of a country lends money to commercial banks in the event of any shortfall of funds. Repo rate is used by monetary authorities to control inflation.