Q.1) 
In the following passage, there are blanks, each followed by a word given in bold. All these bold words are jumbled and do not necessarily fit in the blank against them. Find the appropriate fit for every blank and mark the answer accordingly. There is a lot of academic (A) (unique) in Marketing on retailing and most of it looks at the retail industry in North American and European countries. The retail industry in (B) (organised) economies such as India presents challenges that are typically not seen in these contexts. The learning from the developed world cannot be applied directly to the retail industry in the emerging economies. The Indian retail industry has certain key features that make it (C) (requires). First, the retail space is dominated by traditional kirana stores. Walk through a street and you will find more kirana stores than (D) (emerging) retail outlets like Big Bazar or Reliance Fresh. Second, the government regulation (E) (printed) fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) manufacturers to print the “Maximum Retail Price” or MRP on the package of the product. In the US, the retailer (F) (relatively) the price paid by the consumer but here the MRP is (G) (decides) on the package. This anchors the final retail price for a product. Third, you often see retailers offering extra price and quantity benefits at the store level like discounts or bundled products. Manufacturer-led promotions are (H) (reshaping) infrequent. Very rarely would you see Unilever India or a Proctor & Gamble offering a 15% extra for their regular 180ml shampoo. Finally, we have the (I) (research) of rural areas and cities of different sizes spread across the country. Increasing urbanisation, increasing incomes, and rising aspirations for a better quality of life are (J) (diversity) the Indian retail space. Which of the following fits in blank(A)?
(a) Printed
(b) Research
(c) Diversity
(d) Requires
(e) Reshaping

Q.2) 
In the following passage, there are blanks, each followed by a word given in bold. All these bold words are jumbled and do not necessarily fit in the blank against them. Find the appropriate fit for every blank and mark the answer accordingly. There is a lot of academic (A) (unique) in Marketing on retailing and most of it looks at the retail industry in North American and European countries. The retail industry in (B) (organised) economies such as India presents challenges that are typically not seen in these contexts. The learning from the developed world cannot be applied directly to the retail industry in the emerging economies. The Indian retail industry has certain key features that make it (C) (requires). First, the retail space is dominated by traditional kirana stores. Walk through a street and you will find more kirana stores than (D) (emerging) retail outlets like Big Bazar or Reliance Fresh. Second, the government regulation (E) (printed) fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) manufacturers to print the “Maximum Retail Price” or MRP on the package of the product. In the US, the retailer (F) (relatively) the price paid by the consumer but here the MRP is (G) (decides) on the package. This anchors the final retail price for a product. Third, you often see retailers offering extra price and quantity benefits at the store level like discounts or bundled products. Manufacturer-led promotions are (H) (reshaping) infrequent. Very rarely would you see Unilever India or a Proctor & Gamble offering a 15% extra for their regular 180ml shampoo. Finally, we have the (I) (research) of rural areas and cities of different sizes spread across the country. Increasing urbanisation, increasing incomes, and rising aspirations for a better quality of life are (J) (diversity) the Indian retail space. Which of the following fits in blank(B)?
(a) Emerging
(b) Printed
(c) Reshaping
(d) Unique
(e) Research

Q.3)
In the following passage, there are blanks, each followed by a word given in bold. All these bold words are jumbled and do not necessarily fit in the blank against them. Find the appropriate fit for every blank and mark the answer accordingly. There is a lot of academic (A) (unique) in Marketing on retailing and most of it looks at the retail industry in North American and European countries. The retail industry in (B) (organised) economies such as India presents challenges that are typically not seen in these contexts. The learning from the developed world cannot be applied directly to the retail industry in the emerging economies. The Indian retail industry has certain key features that make it (C) (requires). First, the retail space is dominated by traditional kirana stores. Walk through a street and you will find more kirana stores than (D) (emerging) retail outlets like Big Bazar or Reliance Fresh. Second, the government regulation (E) (printed) fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) manufacturers to print the “Maximum Retail Price” or MRP on the package of the product. In the US, the retailer (F) (relatively) the price paid by the consumer but here the MRP is (G) (decides) on the package. This anchors the final retail price for a product. Third, you often see retailers offering extra price and quantity benefits at the store level like discounts or bundled products. Manufacturer-led promotions are (H) (reshaping) infrequent. Very rarely would you see Unilever India or a Proctor & Gamble offering a 15% extra for their regular 180ml shampoo. Finally, we have the (I) (research) of rural areas and cities of different sizes spread across the country. Increasing urbanisation, increasing incomes, and rising aspirations for a better quality of life are (J) (diversity) the Indian retail space. Which of the following fits in blank(C)?
(a) Diversity
(b) Decides
(c) Printed
(d) Unique
(e) Reshaping

Q.4)
In the following passage, there are blanks, each followed by a word given in bold. All these bold words are jumbled and do not necessarily fit in the blank against them. Find the appropriate fit for every blank and mark the answer accordingly. There is a lot of academic (A) (unique) in Marketing on retailing and most of it looks at the retail industry in North American and European countries. The retail industry in (B) (organised) economies such as India presents challenges that are typically not seen in these contexts. The learning from the developed world cannot be applied directly to the retail industry in the emerging economies. The Indian retail industry has certain key features that make it (C) (requires). First, the retail space is dominated by traditional kirana stores. Walk through a street and you will find more kirana stores than (D) (emerging) retail outlets like Big Bazar or Reliance Fresh. Second, the government regulation (E) (printed) fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) manufacturers to print the “Maximum Retail Price” or MRP on the package of the product. In the US, the retailer (F) (relatively) the price paid by the consumer but here the MRP is (G) (decides) on the package. This anchors the final retail price for a product. Third, you often see retailers offering extra price and quantity benefits at the store level like discounts or bundled products. Manufacturer-led promotions are (H) (reshaping) infrequent. Very rarely would you see Unilever India or a Proctor & Gamble offering a 15% extra for their regular 180ml shampoo. Finally, we have the (I) (research) of rural areas and cities of different sizes spread across the country. Increasing urbanisation, increasing incomes, and rising aspirations for a better quality of life are (J) (diversity) the Indian retail space. Which of the following fits in blank(D)?
(a) Research
(b) Diversity
(c) Organised
(d) Printed
(e) Emerging

Q.5)
In the following passage, there are blanks, each followed by a word given in bold. All these bold words are jumbled and do not necessarily fit in the blank against them. Find the appropriate fit for every blank and mark the answer accordingly. There is a lot of academic (A) (unique) in Marketing on retailing and most of it looks at the retail industry in North American and European countries. The retail industry in (B) (organised) economies such as India presents challenges that are typically not seen in these contexts. The learning from the developed world cannot be applied directly to the retail industry in the emerging economies. The Indian retail industry has certain key features that make it (C) (requires). First, the retail space is dominated by traditional kirana stores. Walk through a street and you will find more kirana stores than (D) (emerging) retail outlets like Big Bazar or Reliance Fresh. Second, the government regulation (E) (printed) fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) manufacturers to print the “Maximum Retail Price” or MRP on the package of the product. In the US, the retailer (F) (relatively) the price paid by the consumer but here the MRP is (G) (decides) on the package. This anchors the final retail price for a product. Third, you often see retailers offering extra price and quantity benefits at the store level like discounts or bundled products. Manufacturer-led promotions are (H) (reshaping) infrequent. Very rarely would you see Unilever India or a Proctor & Gamble offering a 15% extra for their regular 180ml shampoo. Finally, we have the (I) (research) of rural areas and cities of different sizes spread across the country. Increasing urbanisation, increasing incomes, and rising aspirations for a better quality of life are (J) (diversity) the Indian retail space. Which of the following fits in blank(F)?
(a) Printed
(b) Decides
(c) Diversity
(d) Requires
(e) Organised

Q.6)
In the following passage, there are blanks, each followed by a word given in bold. All these bold words are jumbled and do not necessarily fit in the blank against them. Find the appropriate fit for every blank and mark the answer accordingly. There is a lot of academic (A) (unique) in Marketing on retailing and most of it looks at the retail industry in North American and European countries. The retail industry in (B) (organised) economies such as India presents challenges that are typically not seen in these contexts. The learning from the developed world cannot be applied directly to the retail industry in the emerging economies. The Indian retail industry has certain key features that make it (C) (requires). First, the retail space is dominated by traditional kirana stores. Walk through a street and you will find more kirana stores than (D) (emerging) retail outlets like Big Bazar or Reliance Fresh. Second, the government regulation (E) (printed) fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) manufacturers to print the “Maximum Retail Price” or MRP on the package of the product. In the US, the retailer (F) (relatively) the price paid by the consumer but here the MRP is (G) (decides) on the package. This anchors the final retail price for a product. Third, you often see retailers offering extra price and quantity benefits at the store level like discounts or bundled products. Manufacturer-led promotions are (H) (reshaping) infrequent. Very rarely would you see Unilever India or a Proctor & Gamble offering a 15% extra for their regular 180ml shampoo. Finally, we have the (I) (research) of rural areas and cities of different sizes spread across the country. Increasing urbanisation, increasing incomes, and rising aspirations for a better quality of life are (J) (diversity) the Indian retail space.Which of the following fits in blank(H)?
(a) Decides
(b) Printed
(c) Relatively
(d) Organised
(e) Unique

Q.7) 
Read the passage carefully and answer the following questions. Certain words are printed in bold to help you locate them while answering some of the questions. In the public's eye, military men are still the sole sufferers of PTSD. But research shows that women are in some cases twice as likely to develop the disorder. Despite being far more vulnerable, women are often misdiagnosed due to cultural stereotypes, and there's a huge gap in research on which kinds of treatments work best for which kinds of people. Studies and research programs have been designed, until recently, to understand men with PTSD. The same is true for support systems and treatment centers. In the legal system, women who report PTSD from rape are less likely to be believed than men who report PTSD from combat. Research shows that women are at a higher risk of PTSD. While men experience more traumatic events in their lives, women are, depending on which study you look at, as much as twice as likely to develop PTSD, but no one really knows why. Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD. For women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater; historically, female soldiers have struggled to be counted as equals to men on the battlefield. Women, stereotypically considered to possess less emotional fortitude than men, may be unwilling to admit that they are suffering from PTSD lest they appear to conform to this stereotype. That domestic bit has another face too: Where men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, caregiving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and wife. "Gendered social roles can compound the negative impact," said Dawne Vogt, a research psychologist at the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD. "So they might have additional stress when they're dealing with something. "Technically, PTSD is largely the same for men and women, characterized by things like fear based anxiety, sleep disturbance, flashbacks, feelings of detachment and more. And both men and women often experience multiple conditions alongside PTSD. But they seem to develop different sets of additional problems. Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. What is clear is that women who return from combat, with PTSD or not, often have a harder time returning to their lives. According to a report by the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor and Housing and Urban Development, "America's nearly 300,000 women veterans are put at risk by a system designed for and dominated by male veterans." This includes lack of access to peer support, group therapy and specialized mental health care for things like PTSD. Recent changes made by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs have improved treatment options for female veterans living with PTSD, but there is still more that needs to be done. Women veterans are also more likely to be unemployed than male veterans, and at least twice as likely to be homeless. On top of that, women veterans are more likely to be single parents and come back to dependents. But Vogt says that nobody knows how this might impact their PTSD, or which treatments might work best. And it's not necessarily clear that what works for veterans will work for civilians either. Right now, for example, most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men.Another challenge is that until very recently, treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain. Before rule changes were enacted in 2010, only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD. However, recent regulation changes have ended these stipulations, allowing women who serve in any capacity to be eligible for benefits. Even if female veterans are eligible for these benefits, the quality of the care a wartime PTSD sufferer receives can vary widely. The United States Department of Veterans Affair(VA) pays disability benefits to service men and women who have been diagnosed with PTSD and also provides these individuals with free health care. But while mental health counseling that comes directly from VA doctors is completely free to veterans, there are often long waiting lists for those who need to be evaluated or treated. Therapy provided by non-VA professionals may not be covered by health insurance. Access to mental health professionals who have been specially trained to treat wartime PTSD is often difficult for those not living near major urban centers. On both the research level and the policy level, more must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country Figuring out which treatment works best for PTSD is still an ongoing process for everybody, men and women alike. But if researchers want to help treat people equally, they'll need to include more women. What is the style of the passage?
(a) Argumentative
(b) Descriptive
(c) Narrative
(d) Expository
(e) Persuasive

Q.8) 
Read the passage carefully and answer the following questions. Certain words are printed in bold to help you locate them while answering some of the questions. In the public's eye, military men are still the sole sufferers of PTSD. But research shows that women are in some cases twice as likely to develop the disorder. Despite being far more vulnerable, women are often misdiagnosed due to cultural stereotypes, and there's a huge gap in research on which kinds of treatments work best for which kinds of people. Studies and research programs have been designed, until recently, to understand men with PTSD. The same is true for support systems and treatment centers. In the legal system, women who report PTSD from rape are less likely to be believed than men who report PTSD from combat. Research shows that women are at a higher risk of PTSD. While men experience more traumatic events in their lives, women are, depending on which study you look at, as much as twice as likely to develop PTSD, but no one really knows why. Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD. For women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater; historically, female soldiers have struggled to be counted as equals to men on the battlefield. Women, stereotypically considered to possess less emotional fortitude than men, may be unwilling to admit that they are suffering from PTSD lest they appear to conform to this stereotype. That domestic bit has another face too: Where men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, caregiving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and wife. "Gendered social roles can compound the negative impact," said Dawne Vogt, a research psychologist at the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD. "So they might have additional stress when they're dealing with something. "Technically, PTSD is largely the same for men and women, characterized by things like fear based anxiety, sleep disturbance, flashbacks, feelings of detachment and more. And both men and women often experience multiple conditions alongside PTSD. But they seem to develop different sets of additional problems. Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. What is clear is that women who return from combat, with PTSD or not, often have a harder time returning to their lives. According to a report by the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor and Housing and Urban Development, "America's nearly 300,000 women veterans are put at risk by a system designed for and dominated by male veterans." This includes lack of access to peer support, group therapy and specialized mental health care for things like PTSD. Recent changes made by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs have improved treatment options for female veterans living with PTSD, but there is still more that needs to be done. Women veterans are also more likely to be unemployed than male veterans, and at least twice as likely to be homeless. On top of that, women veterans are more likely to be single parents and come back to dependents. But Vogt says that nobody knows how this might impact their PTSD, or which treatments might work best. And it's not necessarily clear that what works for veterans will work for civilians either. Right now, for example, most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men.Another challenge is that until very recently, treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain. Before rule changes were enacted in 2010, only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD. However, recent regulation changes have ended these stipulations, allowing women who serve in any capacity to be eligible for benefits. Even if female veterans are eligible for these benefits, the quality of the care a wartime PTSD sufferer receives can vary widely. The United States Department of Veterans Affair(VA) pays disability benefits to service men and women who have been diagnosed with PTSD and also provides these individuals with free health care. But while mental health counseling that comes directly from VA doctors is completely free to veterans, there are often long waiting lists for those who need to be evaluated or treated. Therapy provided by non-VA professionals may not be covered by health insurance. Access to mental health professionals who have been specially trained to treat wartime PTSD is often difficult for those not living near major urban centers. On both the research level and the policy level, more must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country Figuring out which treatment works best for PTSD is still an ongoing process for everybody, men and women alike. But if researchers want to help treat people equally, they'll need to include more women. Choose the word which is NOT the synonym for the word ‘Traumatic’ used in the passage.
(a) Daunting
(b) Atrocious
(c) Formidable
(d) Inchoate
(e) Petrifying

Q.9)
Read the passage carefully and answer the following questions. Certain words are printed in bold to help you locate them while answering some of the questions. In the public's eye, military men are still the sole sufferers of PTSD. But research shows that women are in some cases twice as likely to develop the disorder. Despite being far more vulnerable, women are often misdiagnosed due to cultural stereotypes, and there's a huge gap in research on which kinds of treatments work best for which kinds of people. Studies and research programs have been designed, until recently, to understand men with PTSD. The same is true for support systems and treatment centers. In the legal system, women who report PTSD from rape are less likely to be believed than men who report PTSD from combat. Research shows that women are at a higher risk of PTSD. While men experience more traumatic events in their lives, women are, depending on which study you look at, as much as twice as likely to develop PTSD, but no one really knows why. Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD. For women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater; historically, female soldiers have struggled to be counted as equals to men on the battlefield. Women, stereotypically considered to possess less emotional fortitude than men, may be unwilling to admit that they are suffering from PTSD lest they appear to conform to this stereotype. That domestic bit has another face too: Where men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, caregiving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and wife. "Gendered social roles can compound the negative impact," said Dawne Vogt, a research psychologist at the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD. "So they might have additional stress when they're dealing with something. "Technically, PTSD is largely the same for men and women, characterized by things like fear based anxiety, sleep disturbance, flashbacks, feelings of detachment and more. And both men and women often experience multiple conditions alongside PTSD. But they seem to develop different sets of additional problems. Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. What is clear is that women who return from combat, with PTSD or not, often have a harder time returning to their lives. According to a report by the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor and Housing and Urban Development, "America's nearly 300,000 women veterans are put at risk by a system designed for and dominated by male veterans." This includes lack of access to peer support, group therapy and specialized mental health care for things like PTSD. Recent changes made by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs have improved treatment options for female veterans living with PTSD, but there is still more that needs to be done. Women veterans are also more likely to be unemployed than male veterans, and at least twice as likely to be homeless. On top of that, women veterans are more likely to be single parents and come back to dependents. But Vogt says that nobody knows how this might impact their PTSD, or which treatments might work best. And it's not necessarily clear that what works for veterans will work for civilians either. Right now, for example, most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men.Another challenge is that until very recently, treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain. Before rule changes were enacted in 2010, only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD. However, recent regulation changes have ended these stipulations, allowing women who serve in any capacity to be eligible for benefits. Even if female veterans are eligible for these benefits, the quality of the care a wartime PTSD sufferer receives can vary widely. The United States Department of Veterans Affair(VA) pays disability benefits to service men and women who have been diagnosed with PTSD and also provides these individuals with free health care. But while mental health counseling that comes directly from VA doctors is completely free to veterans, there are often long waiting lists for those who need to be evaluated or treated. Therapy provided by non-VA professionals may not be covered by health insurance. Access to mental health professionals who have been specially trained to treat wartime PTSD is often difficult for those not living near major urban centers. On both the research level and the policy level, more must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country Figuring out which treatment works best for PTSD is still an ongoing process for everybody, men and women alike. But if researchers want to help treat people equally, they'll need to include more women. Based on information in the passage, it can be inferred that negative stereotypes about women in the military contribute to their increased likelihood to develop PTSD in which of the following ways? I. Some male members of the armed forces subscribe to negative stereotypes about women; this prejudice may prevent women from forming close bonds with their units. II. Women may be less likely than men to admit to suffering from PTSD because they do not want to conform to stereotypes that portray women as weak. III. Women are aware of the negative stereotypes that pervade the military. This awareness may lead to a reduction in self-esteem. (a) Only I
(b) Only II
(c) Both I and II
(d) Both II and III
(e) None of these

Q.10)
Read the passage carefully and answer the following questions. Certain words are printed in bold to help you locate them while answering some of the questions. In the public's eye, military men are still the sole sufferers of PTSD. But research shows that women are in some cases twice as likely to develop the disorder. Despite being far more vulnerable, women are often misdiagnosed due to cultural stereotypes, and there's a huge gap in research on which kinds of treatments work best for which kinds of people. Studies and research programs have been designed, until recently, to understand men with PTSD. The same is true for support systems and treatment centers. In the legal system, women who report PTSD from rape are less likely to be believed than men who report PTSD from combat. Research shows that women are at a higher risk of PTSD. While men experience more traumatic events in their lives, women are, depending on which study you look at, as much as twice as likely to develop PTSD, but no one really knows why. Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD. For women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater; historically, female soldiers have struggled to be counted as equals to men on the battlefield. Women, stereotypically considered to possess less emotional fortitude than men, may be unwilling to admit that they are suffering from PTSD lest they appear to conform to this stereotype. That domestic bit has another face too: Where men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, caregiving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and wife. "Gendered social roles can compound the negative impact," said Dawne Vogt, a research psychologist at the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD. "So they might have additional stress when they're dealing with something. "Technically, PTSD is largely the same for men and women, characterized by things like fear based anxiety, sleep disturbance, flashbacks, feelings of detachment and more. And both men and women often experience multiple conditions alongside PTSD. But they seem to develop different sets of additional problems. Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. What is clear is that women who return from combat, with PTSD or not, often have a harder time returning to their lives. According to a report by the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor and Housing and Urban Development, "America's nearly 300,000 women veterans are put at risk by a system designed for and dominated by male veterans." This includes lack of access to peer support, group therapy and specialized mental health care for things like PTSD. Recent changes made by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs have improved treatment options for female veterans living with PTSD, but there is still more that needs to be done. Women veterans are also more likely to be unemployed than male veterans, and at least twice as likely to be homeless. On top of that, women veterans are more likely to be single parents and come back to dependents. But Vogt says that nobody knows how this might impact their PTSD, or which treatments might work best. And it's not necessarily clear that what works for veterans will work for civilians either. Right now, for example, most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men.Another challenge is that until very recently, treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain. Before rule changes were enacted in 2010, only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD. However, recent regulation changes have ended these stipulations, allowing women who serve in any capacity to be eligible for benefits. Even if female veterans are eligible for these benefits, the quality of the care a wartime PTSD sufferer receives can vary widely. The United States Department of Veterans Affair(VA) pays disability benefits to service men and women who have been diagnosed with PTSD and also provides these individuals with free health care. But while mental health counseling that comes directly from VA doctors is completely free to veterans, there are often long waiting lists for those who need to be evaluated or treated. Therapy provided by non-VA professionals may not be covered by health insurance. Access to mental health professionals who have been specially trained to treat wartime PTSD is often difficult for those not living near major urban centers. On both the research level and the policy level, more must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country Figuring out which treatment works best for PTSD is still an ongoing process for everybody, men and women alike. But if researchers want to help treat people equally, they'll need to include more women. According to the passage, what are the reasons that treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain? I. Most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men. II. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD as per the previous rules which include that only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. III. Women do not follow the regularities properly that are needed in treatment of PTSD and tend to recover slower than man.
(a) Only I
(b) Only II
(c) Only III
(d) Both I and II
(e) All I, II and III

Q.11)
Read the passage carefully and answer the following questions. Certain words are printed in bold to help you locate them while answering some of the questions. In the public's eye, military men are still the sole sufferers of PTSD. But research shows that women are in some cases twice as likely to develop the disorder. Despite being far more vulnerable, women are often misdiagnosed due to cultural stereotypes, and there's a huge gap in research on which kinds of treatments work best for which kinds of people. Studies and research programs have been designed, until recently, to understand men with PTSD. The same is true for support systems and treatment centers. In the legal system, women who report PTSD from rape are less likely to be believed than men who report PTSD from combat. Research shows that women are at a higher risk of PTSD. While men experience more traumatic events in their lives, women are, depending on which study you look at, as much as twice as likely to develop PTSD, but no one really knows why. Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD. For women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater; historically, female soldiers have struggled to be counted as equals to men on the battlefield. Women, stereotypically considered to possess less emotional fortitude than men, may be unwilling to admit that they are suffering from PTSD lest they appear to conform to this stereotype. That domestic bit has another face too: Where men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, caregiving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and wife. "Gendered social roles can compound the negative impact," said Dawne Vogt, a research psychologist at the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD. "So they might have additional stress when they're dealing with something. "Technically, PTSD is largely the same for men and women, characterized by things like fear based anxiety, sleep disturbance, flashbacks, feelings of detachment and more. And both men and women often experience multiple conditions alongside PTSD. But they seem to develop different sets of additional problems. Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. What is clear is that women who return from combat, with PTSD or not, often have a harder time returning to their lives. According to a report by the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor and Housing and Urban Development, "America's nearly 300,000 women veterans are put at risk by a system designed for and dominated by male veterans." This includes lack of access to peer support, group therapy and specialized mental health care for things like PTSD. Recent changes made by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs have improved treatment options for female veterans living with PTSD, but there is still more that needs to be done. Women veterans are also more likely to be unemployed than male veterans, and at least twice as likely to be homeless. On top of that, women veterans are more likely to be single parents and come back to dependents. But Vogt says that nobody knows how this might impact their PTSD, or which treatments might work best. And it's not necessarily clear that what works for veterans will work for civilians either. Right now, for example, most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men.Another challenge is that until very recently, treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain. Before rule changes were enacted in 2010, only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD. However, recent regulation changes have ended these stipulations, allowing women who serve in any capacity to be eligible for benefits. Even if female veterans are eligible for these benefits, the quality of the care a wartime PTSD sufferer receives can vary widely. The United States Department of Veterans Affair(VA) pays disability benefits to service men and women who have been diagnosed with PTSD and also provides these individuals with free health care. But while mental health counseling that comes directly from VA doctors is completely free to veterans, there are often long waiting lists for those who need to be evaluated or treated. Therapy provided by non-VA professionals may not be covered by health insurance. Access to mental health professionals who have been specially trained to treat wartime PTSD is often difficult for those not living near major urban centers. On both the research level and the policy level, more must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country Figuring out which treatment works best for PTSD is still an ongoing process for everybody, men and women alike. But if researchers want to help treat people equally, they'll need to include more women. Which of the following is the primary purpose of the passage?
(a) To explain why military veterans are more likely than civilians to develop PTSD
(b) To persuade government officials to increase funding for PTSD treatment centers in non-urban areas for female veterans
(c) To denounce the United States military for the way they have handled female veterans’ mental health problems
(d) To inform readers about the likely warning signs of PTSD among military veterans
(e) To educate readers about the problem of insufficient treatment available for female veterans with PTSD

Q.12)
Read the passage carefully and answer the following questions. Certain words are printed in bold to help you locate them while answering some of the questions. In the public's eye, military men are still the sole sufferers of PTSD. But research shows that women are in some cases twice as likely to develop the disorder. Despite being far more vulnerable, women are often misdiagnosed due to cultural stereotypes, and there's a huge gap in research on which kinds of treatments work best for which kinds of people. Studies and research programs have been designed, until recently, to understand men with PTSD. The same is true for support systems and treatment centers. In the legal system, women who report PTSD from rape are less likely to be believed than men who report PTSD from combat. Research shows that women are at a higher risk of PTSD. While men experience more traumatic events in their lives, women are, depending on which study you look at, as much as twice as likely to develop PTSD, but no one really knows why. Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD. For women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater; historically, female soldiers have struggled to be counted as equals to men on the battlefield. Women, stereotypically considered to possess less emotional fortitude than men, may be unwilling to admit that they are suffering from PTSD lest they appear to conform to this stereotype. That domestic bit has another face too: Where men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, caregiving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and wife. "Gendered social roles can compound the negative impact," said Dawne Vogt, a research psychologist at the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD. "So they might have additional stress when they're dealing with something. "Technically, PTSD is largely the same for men and women, characterized by things like fear based anxiety, sleep disturbance, flashbacks, feelings of detachment and more. And both men and women often experience multiple conditions alongside PTSD. But they seem to develop different sets of additional problems. Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. What is clear is that women who return from combat, with PTSD or not, often have a harder time returning to their lives. According to a report by the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor and Housing and Urban Development, "America's nearly 300,000 women veterans are put at risk by a system designed for and dominated by male veterans." This includes lack of access to peer support, group therapy and specialized mental health care for things like PTSD. Recent changes made by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs have improved treatment options for female veterans living with PTSD, but there is still more that needs to be done. Women veterans are also more likely to be unemployed than male veterans, and at least twice as likely to be homeless. On top of that, women veterans are more likely to be single parents and come back to dependents. But Vogt says that nobody knows how this might impact their PTSD, or which treatments might work best. And it's not necessarily clear that what works for veterans will work for civilians either. Right now, for example, most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men.Another challenge is that until very recently, treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain. Before rule changes were enacted in 2010, only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD. However, recent regulation changes have ended these stipulations, allowing women who serve in any capacity to be eligible for benefits. Even if female veterans are eligible for these benefits, the quality of the care a wartime PTSD sufferer receives can vary widely. The United States Department of Veterans Affair(VA) pays disability benefits to service men and women who have been diagnosed with PTSD and also provides these individuals with free health care. But while mental health counseling that comes directly from VA doctors is completely free to veterans, there are often long waiting lists for those who need to be evaluated or treated. Therapy provided by non-VA professionals may not be covered by health insurance. Access to mental health professionals who have been specially trained to treat wartime PTSD is often difficult for those not living near major urban centers. On both the research level and the policy level, more must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country Figuring out which treatment works best for PTSD is still an ongoing process for everybody, men and women alike. But if researchers want to help treat people equally, they'll need to include more women. According to the passage, what makes PTSD harder for a female veteran as compared to a male veteran? I. Women also suffers from depression alongside their PTSD, because of their depression, they self-harm themselves. II. Women are not able to take time off to recover from PTSD because females give more importance and time in maintaining their domestic roles as compared to treatment of their PTSD. III. Most female veterans refuse to seek treatment 
(a) Only I
(b) Only II
(c) Only III
(d) Both I and II
(e) All I,II and III

Q.13)
Read the passage carefully and answer the following questions. Certain words are printed in bold to help you locate them while answering some of the questions. In the public's eye, military men are still the sole sufferers of PTSD. But research shows that women are in some cases twice as likely to develop the disorder. Despite being far more vulnerable, women are often misdiagnosed due to cultural stereotypes, and there's a huge gap in research on which kinds of treatments work best for which kinds of people. Studies and research programs have been designed, until recently, to understand men with PTSD. The same is true for support systems and treatment centers. In the legal system, women who report PTSD from rape are less likely to be believed than men who report PTSD from combat. Research shows that women are at a higher risk of PTSD. While men experience more traumatic events in their lives, women are, depending on which study you look at, as much as twice as likely to develop PTSD, but no one really knows why. Pervasive male prejudice against women is another factor that can diminish unit cohesion for female soldiers. Because women are less likely than men to experience unit cohesion while serving in the military, women are less likely to develop the social support structures that will help prevent them from developing PTSD. For women, this hesitation to self-identify as a sufferer of PTSD could be even greater; historically, female soldiers have struggled to be counted as equals to men on the battlefield. Women, stereotypically considered to possess less emotional fortitude than men, may be unwilling to admit that they are suffering from PTSD lest they appear to conform to this stereotype. That domestic bit has another face too: Where men who've experienced trauma might be able to take time off to recover, women are expected to maintain their domestic, caregiving roles, which make it harder for women to address symptoms of post-traumatic stress for fear of "failing" at their roles as mother, daughter and wife. "Gendered social roles can compound the negative impact," said Dawne Vogt, a research psychologist at the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD. "So they might have additional stress when they're dealing with something. "Technically, PTSD is largely the same for men and women, characterized by things like fear based anxiety, sleep disturbance, flashbacks, feelings of detachment and more. And both men and women often experience multiple conditions alongside PTSD. But they seem to develop different sets of additional problems. Women tend to develop depression alongside their PTSD, while men tend to tack on substance abuse. What that means is that men with PTSD tend to show a different profile than women do. Men tend to lash out, showing anger, hostility, explosiveness and unpredictability. Women, often because of their depression, tend to do the opposite, becoming withdrawn and turning to self harm. What is clear is that women who return from combat, with PTSD or not, often have a harder time returning to their lives. According to a report by the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor and Housing and Urban Development, "America's nearly 300,000 women veterans are put at risk by a system designed for and dominated by male veterans." This includes lack of access to peer support, group therapy and specialized mental health care for things like PTSD. Recent changes made by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs have improved treatment options for female veterans living with PTSD, but there is still more that needs to be done. Women veterans are also more likely to be unemployed than male veterans, and at least twice as likely to be homeless. On top of that, women veterans are more likely to be single parents and come back to dependents. But Vogt says that nobody knows how this might impact their PTSD, or which treatments might work best. And it's not necessarily clear that what works for veterans will work for civilians either. Right now, for example, most of the research on virtual reality uses for treating PTSD focuses on military men.Another challenge is that until very recently, treatment for PTSD has been more difficult for women than men to obtain. Before rule changes were enacted in 2010, only veterans who encountered direct combat experience qualified to receive disability payments for PTSD. Because very few women are placed on the front lines, very few were eligible to receive free treatment for PTSD. However, recent regulation changes have ended these stipulations, allowing women who serve in any capacity to be eligible for benefits. Even if female veterans are eligible for these benefits, the quality of the care a wartime PTSD sufferer receives can vary widely. The United States Department of Veterans Affair(VA) pays disability benefits to service men and women who have been diagnosed with PTSD and also provides these individuals with free health care. But while mental health counseling that comes directly from VA doctors is completely free to veterans, there are often long waiting lists for those who need to be evaluated or treated. Therapy provided by non-VA professionals may not be covered by health insurance. Access to mental health professionals who have been specially trained to treat wartime PTSD is often difficult for those not living near major urban centers. On both the research level and the policy level, more must be done to help the women who have sacrificed so much for their country Figuring out which treatment works best for PTSD is still an ongoing process for everybody, men and women alike. But if researchers want to help treat people equally, they'll need to include more women. Based on information in the passage, which of the following statements best reflects the author’s opinion about the mental health care provided for female veterans?
(a) Although the VA has not done nearly enough, state and independent agencies have made up for government deficiencies.
(b) The government has done almost nothing to help; the way we treat our female veterans is a national disgrace.
(c) Because service women are more likely than service men to develop PTSD, mental health care has been better for female veterans.
(d) The VA and other government agencies have attempted to provide mental health care for female veterans, but most of them refuse to seek treatment.
(e) The amount of care provided has improved over the past few years, but it is still insufficient

Q.14) 
Direction: In the following question, two columns are given containing a connector and three phrases each. In the first column, the phrases are A, B and C and in the second column, the phrases are D, E and F. You have to make meaningful sentences using the connectors in the starting and from the phrases of both the columns. There are five options, four of which display the sequence(s) in which the phrases with the connectors can be joined to form a grammatically and contextually correct sentence. If none of the options given forms a correct sentence after combination, select ‘none of these’ as your answer.
(a) A-F
(b) A-F& C-D
(c) A-F, C-D& B-E
(d) B-E
(e) A-F& B-E

Q.15) 
Direction: In the following question, two columns are given containing a connector and three phrases each. In the first column, the phrases are A, B and C and in the second column, the phrases are D, E and F. You have to make meaningful sentences using the connectors in the starting and from the phrases of both the columns. There are five options, four of which display the sequence(s) in which the phrases with the connectors can be joined to form a grammatically and contextually correct sentence. If none of the options given forms a correct sentence after combination, select ‘none of these’ as your answer.
(a) C-F
(b) C-F& A-E
(c) A-D
(d) A-D& B-E
(e) None of these

Q.16)
Direction: In the following question, two columns are given containing a connector and three phrases each. In the first column, the phrases are A, B and C and in the second column, the phrases are D, E and F. You have to make meaningful sentences using the connectors in the starting and from the phrases of both the columns. There are five options, four of which display the sequence(s) in which the phrases with the connectors can be joined to form a grammatically and contextually correct sentence. If none of the options given forms a correct sentence after combination, select ‘none of these’ as your answer.
(a) A-E
(b) A-E& B-F
(c) B-D
(d) A-E, B-D& B-F
(e) A-D

Q.17) 
The given sentences, when properly sequenced, form a coherent paragraph. Each sentence is labelled with a letter. Choose the most logical order of the sentences from among the five given choices to construct a coherent paragraph keeping (6) as the last statement. A) Arif Jamal, a New York Times correspondent, reported, "This time, India's victory was nearly total: India accepted cease-fire only after it had occupied 740 square miles, though Pakistan had made marginal gains of 210 square miles of territory." B) On September 22, it ended after the intervention of the UN and a ceasefire was __________ declared the next day. C) In the August of 1965, Pakistani forces infiltrated India-occupied Kashmir in what they called Operation Gibraltar D) While our textbooks taught us that we did, people from across the border believe that they were victorious. E) Their troops carried extra- ammunition and entered posing as locals of the area and their attack on Indian soil led to war without a formal declaration, disrupting peace in the valley. 6) Even though neutral assessments suggest our superiority in the war but technically it remains militarily inconclusive. Which of the following would be the SECOND sentence after rearrangement?
(a) A
(b) E
(c) B
(d) D
(e) F

Q.18)
The given sentences, when properly sequenced, form a coherent paragraph. Each sentence is labelled with a letter. Choose the most logical order of the sentences from among the five given choices to construct a coherent paragraph keeping (6) as the last statement. A) Arif Jamal, a New York Times correspondent, reported, "This time, India's victory was nearly total: India accepted cease-fire only after it had occupied 740 square miles, though Pakistan had made marginal gains of 210 square miles of territory." B) On September 22, it ended after the intervention of the UN and a ceasefire was __________ declared the next day. C) In the August of 1965, Pakistani forces infiltrated India-occupied Kashmir in what they called Operation Gibraltar D) While our textbooks taught us that we did, people from across the border believe that they were victorious. E) Their troops carried extra- ammunition and entered posing as locals of the area and their attack on Indian soil led to war without a formal declaration, disrupting peace in the valley. 6) Even though neutral assessments suggest our superiority in the war but technically it remains militarily inconclusive. Which of the following can precede the FIFTH sentence of the passage?
(a) Under the orders of then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indian forces had marched on to Lahore and were in striking distance of the cantonment while denying the enemy's attempt to capture Indian territory.
(b) But if you think about it, Pakistan's aim was to conquer a large part of our territory but they did not.
(c) It is important to note that a ceasefire had been ordered at the Rann of Kutch after ceasefire violations from April through June of the same year(1965).
(d) Pakistani forces had managed to capture an area called Khemkaran, but they were pushed back by Indian troops, who managed to reach the outskirts of Lahore.
(e) Historian John Keay wrote this in his book'India: A History':"Pakistan made gains in the Rajasthan desert but its main push against India's Jammu-Srinagar road link was repulsed and Indian tanks advanced to within a sight of Lahore."

Q.19)
The given sentences, when properly sequenced, form a coherent paragraph. Each sentence is labelled with a letter. Choose the most logical order of the sentences from among the five given choices to construct a coherent paragraph keeping (6) as the last statement. A) Arif Jamal, a New York Times correspondent, reported, "This time, India's victory was nearly total: India accepted cease-fire only after it had occupied 740 square miles, though Pakistan had made marginal gains of 210 square miles of territory." B) On September 22, it ended after the intervention of the UN and a ceasefire was __________ declared the next day. C) In the August of 1965, Pakistani forces infiltrated India-occupied Kashmir in what they called Operation Gibraltar D) While our textbooks taught us that we did, people from across the border believe that they were victorious. E) Their troops carried extra- ammunition and entered posing as locals of the area and their attack on Indian soil led to war without a formal declaration, disrupting peace in the valley. 6) Even though neutral assessments suggest our superiority in the war but technically it remains militarily inconclusive. Which of the following pairs form two consecutive statements after rearrangement?
(a) A-E
(b) A-D
(c) E-B
(d) B-C
(e) None of these

Q.20)The given sentences, when properly sequenced, form a coherent paragraph. Each sentence is labelled with a letter. Choose the most logical order of the sentences from among the five given choices to construct a coherent paragraph keeping (6) as the last statement. A) Arif Jamal, a New York Times correspondent, reported, "This time, India's victory was nearly total: India accepted cease-fire only after it had occupied 740 square miles, though Pakistan had made marginal gains of 210 square miles of territory." B) On September 22, it ended after the intervention of the UN and a ceasefire was __________ declared the next day. C) In the August of 1965, Pakistani forces infiltrated India-occupied Kashmir in what they called Operation Gibraltar D) While our textbooks taught us that we did, people from across the border believe that they were victorious. E) Their troops carried extra- ammunition and entered posing as locals of the area and their attack on Indian soil led to war without a formal declaration, disrupting peace in the valley. 6) Even though neutral assessments suggest our superiority in the war but technically it remains militarily inconclusive. Which of the following word would fill the blank given in statement B?
(a) Formally
(b) Eventually
(c) Abruptly
(d) Suddenly
(e) Slowly

Q.21)The given sentences, when properly sequenced, form a coherent paragraph. Each sentence is labelled with a letter. Choose the most logical order of the sentences from among the five given choices to construct a coherent paragraph keeping (6) as the last statement. A) Arif Jamal, a New York Times correspondent, reported, "This time, India's victory was nearly total: India accepted cease-fire only after it had occupied 740 square miles, though Pakistan had made marginal gains of 210 square miles of territory." B) On September 22, it ended after the intervention of the UN and a ceasefire was __________ declared the next day. C) In the August of 1965, Pakistani forces infiltrated India-occupied Kashmir in what they called Operation Gibraltar D) While our textbooks taught us that we did, people from across the border believe that they were victorious. E) Their troops carried extra- ammunition and entered posing as locals of the area and their attack on Indian soil led to war without a formal declaration, disrupting peace in the valley. 6) Even though neutral assessments suggest our superiority in the war but technically it remains militarily inconclusive. Which of the following word would fill the blank given in statement B?
(a) Formally
(b) Eventually
(c) Abruptly
(d) Suddenly
(e) Slowly

Q.22)
Direction: A sentence with two blanks is given, each blank indicating that something has been omitted. Choose the words that best fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole. The move to allow dumping of mercury ______ an outcry from residents of the area who______ that high levels of mercury will affect their health and destroy ecologically sensitive forest area.
(a) Resulted, Insisted
(b) Provoked, Fear
(c) Incited, Determined
(d) Activated, Supported
(e) Angered, Believed

Q.23)
Direction: A sentence with two blanks is given, each blank indicating that something has been omitted. Choose the words that best fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole. The court had directed the directorate of education to_________ that all schools that had been allotted land on the condition that they would________ 25 percent of EWS students fill the allotted seats.
(a) Certify, Admitted
(b) Confirmed, Receive
(c) Ensure, Admit
(d) Ensured, Granted
(e) None of these

Q.24)
Direction: A sentence with two blanks is given, each blank indicating that something has been omitted. Choose the words that best fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole. When building plans of these malls and hospitals are sanctioned, the parking area is not taken into account. While they show parking_______ as common areas, they get________ space for parking and claim that the facility would be provided free of cost.
(a) Spaces, Additional
(b) Area, Necessary
(c) Portion, More
(d) Segment, Extra
(e) None of these

Q.25) 
Direction: A sentence with two blanks is given, each blank indicating that something has been omitted. Choose the words that best fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole. If a junior executive neglects his professional development and __________ education, he can easily and quickly become obsolete in a world changing at________ rates.
(a) higher, vulnerable
(b) management, supreme
(c) better, supreme
(d) administrative, leading
(e) continuing, dizzying

Q.26) 
Direction: In the given question, a sentence is divided into four parts. There are errors in three parts. Choose the part which doesn’t have an error. If all the four parts are correct, mark E, i.e. ‘All are correct’ as the answer. The roof besides them had a(A) great hole smashed through it,(B)/ and pieces of glass was lying(C)/ scattered on every direction.(D)
(a) A
(b) B
(c) C
(d) D
(e) All are correct

Q.27) 
Direction: In the given question, a sentence is divided into four parts. There are errors in three parts. Choose the part which doesn’t have an error. If all the four parts are correct, mark E, i.e. ‘All are correct’ as the answer. The Supreme Court has done(A)/ three weeks to the state government to(B)/ be respondent to its directive and(C)/ file an affidavit citing all the detail.(D)
(a) A
(b) B
(c) C
(d) D
(e) All are correct

Q.28) 
Direction: In the given question, a sentence is divided into four parts. There are errors in three parts. Choose the part which doesn’t have an error. If all the four parts are correct, mark E, i.e. ‘All are correct’ as the answer. Surely, she must feel bitter on(A)/ that fact, and yet neither her voice or(B)/ her expression gave any indication(C)/ that she felt antipathetic.(D)
(a) A
(b) B
(c) C
(d) D
(e) All are correct

Q.29) 
Direction: In the given question, a sentence is divided into four parts. There are errors in three parts. Choose the part which doesn’t have an error. If all the four parts are correct, mark E, i.e. ‘All are correct’ as the answer. Aside by his solemn expression,(A)/ there were nothing in the way he acted (B)/ with the children that might indicate (C)/ anything was wrong among them.(D)
(a) A
(b) B
(c) C
(d) D
(e) All are correct

Q.30)
Direction: In the given question, a sentence is divided into four parts. There are errors in three parts. Choose the part which doesn’t have an error. If all the four parts are correct, mark E, i.e. ‘All are correct’ as the answer. The number of acres(A)/ destroyed by wildfires(B)/ has increased dramatically(C)/ over the past several years.(D)
(a) A
(b) B
(c) C
(d) D
(e) All are correct

Q.31) 
Study the following information carefully and answer the questions that follow. Eight boxes A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H are kept one above another. These boxes are of different colours namely, Orange, White, Violet, Green, Black, Grey, Red and Yellow but not respectively in the same order. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Grey colour box is above red colour box. Box H is placed above Box A. Box C is of green colour. Which box is kept at the fourth position from the top?
(a) The box which is yellow in colour
(b) A
(c) G
(d) The box which is red in colour
(e) None of these

Q.32)
Study the following information carefully and answer the questions that follow. Eight boxes A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H are kept one above another. These boxes are of different colours namely, Orange, White, Violet, Green, Black, Grey, Red and Yellow but not respectively in the same order. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Grey colour box is above red colour box. Box H is placed above Box A. Box C is of green colour. Which Box is White in colour?
(a) E
(b) F
(c) D
(d) B
(e) G

Q.33)
Study the following information carefully and answer the questions that follow. Eight boxes A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H are kept one above another. These boxes are of different colours namely, Orange, White, Violet, Green, Black, Grey, Red and Yellow but not respectively in the same order. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Grey colour box is above red colour box. Box H is placed above Box A. Box C is of green colour. How many boxes are there between box H and A?
(a) One
(b) Two
(c) Three
(d) Four
(e) Five

Q.34)
Study the following information carefully and answer the questions that follow. Eight boxes A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H are kept one above another. These boxes are of different colours namely, Orange, White, Violet, Green, Black, Grey, Red and Yellow but not respectively in the same order. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Grey colour box is above red colour box. Box H is placed above Box A. Box C is of green colour. Four of them are alike in a certain way, which one of the following does not belong to the group?
(a) D, F
(b) B, E
(c) G, A
(d) H, C
(e) F, H

Q.35)
Study the following information carefully and answer the questions that follow. Eight boxes A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H are kept one above another. These boxes are of different colours namely, Orange, White, Violet, Green, Black, Grey, Red and Yellow but not respectively in the same order. Three boxes are kept between the one whose colour is Yellow and the one whose colour is Green, one of them is at the bottommost position. Box E is orange and kept immediately below Box B. Two boxes are kept between D and B. Box D is kept at the topmost position. Box G is placed in the middle of Box B and Box C and is of Black colour. Three boxes are placed between G and F. Box B is placed above Box C. The Box which is white in colour is placed immediately above Box H. Three boxes are placed between the one which is grey in colour and the one which is red in colour. Grey colour box is above red colour box. Box H is placed above Box A. Box C is of green colour. Which one is true about box D?
(a) Box D is kept at third position from top
(b) Two boxes are there between box D and E
(c) It is orange in colour
(d) Violet in colour
(e) None of these

Q.36)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. Eight members Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema of a family went to the park. There are two married couples and four generation. None of the fourth generation member is married. Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. Neither Seema nor Susheel is married to Chetan. Susheel’s sister has one son. There are four males and four females. Vinit is the grandfather of Aashi’s father. Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. Vinit does not have any son. Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. Who is not the female member of the given group?
(a) Geeta
(b) Susheel
(c) Aashi
(d) Sonu
(e) All are females

Q.37)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. Eight members Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema of a family went to the park. There are two married couples and four generation. None of the fourth generation member is married. Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. Neither Seema nor Susheel is married to Chetan. Susheel’s sister has one son. There are four males and four females. Vinit is the grandfather of Aashi’s father. Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. Vinit does not have any son. Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. Who is the nephew of Susheel?
(a) Chetan
(b) Aashi
(c) Sonu
(d) Pankaj
(e) Geeta

Q.38)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. Eight members Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema of a family went to the park. There are two married couples and four generation. None of the fourth generation member is married. Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. Neither Seema nor Susheel is married to Chetan. Susheel’s sister has one son. There are four males and four females. Vinit is the grandfather of Aashi’s father. Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. Vinit does not have any son. Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. Who are the married females in the family?
(a) Susheel, Aashi
(b) Susheel, Seema
(c) Geeta, Seema
(d) Geeta, Pankaj
(e) Susheel, Geeta

Q.39)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. Eight members Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema of a family went to the park. There are two married couples and four generation. None of the fourth generation member is married. Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. Neither Seema nor Susheel is married to Chetan. Susheel’s sister has one son. There are four males and four females. Vinit is the grandfather of Aashi’s father. Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. Vinit does not have any son. Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. To which generation Pankaj belongs?
(a) 1st
(b) 2nd
(c) 4th
(d) 3rd
(e) Can’t be determined

Q.40)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. Eight members Susheel, Geeta, Vinit, Chetan, Sonu, Pankaj, Aashi and Seema of a family went to the park. There are two married couples and four generation. None of the fourth generation member is married. Chetan is the husband of Pankaj’s Daughter in law. Neither Seema nor Susheel is married to Chetan. Susheel’s sister has one son. There are four males and four females. Vinit is the grandfather of Aashi’s father. Sonu is unmarried and is not the son of Chetan or Seema. Susheel is not married to Pankaj, who is father in law of Sonu’s mother. Vinit does not have any son. Susheel’s nephew has one son and one daughter. Who is the son of Geeta?
(a) Sonu
(b) Aashi
(c) Pankaj
(d) Vinit
(e) None of these

Q.41)
 Statements: A> B ≤ C; B= D; E ≤ F ≤ D Conclusions: I. E= C II. C> E III. A< D IV. F> B
(a) None is true.
(b) Only IV is true.
(c) Either I or II follows.
(d) Both I and IV follow.
(e) All are true.

Q.42)
 Statements: D> O ≤ M= I< N; I> A ≥ T> E Conclusions: I. M> E II. O< T III. N> A IV. D= E
(a) None is true.
(b) Only IV is true.
(c) Only II follows.
(d) Both I and III follow.
(e) All are true.

Q.43)
 Statements: P= Q ≥ R; Q ≥ S> T; U< R Conclusions: I. P ≥ S II. Q> U III. P= T IV. R> P
(a) None is true.
(b) Both I and II are true.
(c) Only III follows.
(d) Both I and III follow.
(e) All are true.

Q.44)
 Statements: I ≥ J= K< L; M ≤ J; N< K Conclusions: I. M ≤ I II. N< L III. I> L IV. J= N
(a) None is true.
(b) Both I and II are true.
(c) Only I follow.
(d) Only III follows.
(e) All are true.

Q.45)
 Statements: I ≥ J= K< L; L> M ≥ N; I< O Conclusions: I. O> L II. N> L III. I> M IV. J< N
(a) None is true.
(b) Both I and III are true.
(c) Only IV follows.
(d) Only I follow.
(e) All are true.

Q.46)
Study the following alphanumeric sequence carefully and answer the questions given beside: 84 LAST 67 CRAB 78 NEWS 89 ROSE 76 UNDO If the digits of the word that is starting with consonant and ending at a consonant are to be multiplied within the number while the digits of the rest words are to be added within the number then the words are arranged according to ascending order of the number from left to right end then what would be the 11th letter from left end?
(a) A
(b) D
(c) S
(d) W
(e) T

Q.47)
Study the following alphanumeric sequence carefully and answer the questions given beside: 84 LAST 67 CRAB 78 NEWS 89 ROSE 76 UNDO If all the letters which are attached to an odd number are reversed and all the letters which are attached to an even number are changed to their succeeding letter then how many letters in the new sequence will appear exactly twice?
(a) Two
(b) Three
(c) Four
(d) Five
(e) Seven

Q.48)
Study the following alphanumeric sequence carefully and answer the questions given beside: 84 LAST 67 CRAB 78 NEWS 89 ROSE 76 UNDO If a meaningful word is to be formed using the letters of words separately (using each letter only once), given that the second letter of newly formed word must be a vowel then what would be the total sum of the digits of the numbers attached to those words which follow the condition given?
(a) 29
(b) 24
(c) 20
(d) 33
(e) 38

Q.49) 
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Eight persons M, N, O, P, Q, R, S and T are sitting around a square table. They are sitting in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the square while four sit in the middle of each of the four sides. The ones who sit at four corners face inside while those who sit in the middle of the sides face outside. They were born in different months from January to August but in the same year, not necessarily in the same order. Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. The number of person elder to T is same as younger to P. Only one person is elder to N. The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. S is 2nd to the left of N. R is the youngest person and neighbour of T. P is one month elder to Q. O is 3rd to the left of R. P is facing outside. The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. S is elder to O. Who among the following is the eldest person?
(a) M
(b) N
(c) P
(d) Q
(e) T

Q.50) 
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Eight persons M, N, O, P, Q, R, S and T are sitting around a square table. They are sitting in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the square while four sit in the middle of each of the four sides. The ones who sit at four corners face inside while those who sit in the middle of the sides face outside. They were born in different months from January to August but in the same year, not necessarily in the same order. Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. The number of person elder to T is same as younger to P. Only one person is elder to N. The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. S is 2nd to the left of N. R is the youngest person and neighbour of T. P is one month elder to Q. O is 3rd to the left of R. P is facing outside. The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. S is elder to O. Who among the following is 2nd to the left of R?
(a) O
(b) S
(c) Q
(d) P
(e) T

Q.51)
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Eight persons M, N, O, P, Q, R, S and T are sitting around a square table. They are sitting in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the square while four sit in the middle of each of the four sides. The ones who sit at four corners face inside while those who sit in the middle of the sides face outside. They were born in different months from January to August but in the same year, not necessarily in the same order. Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. The number of person elder to T is same as younger to P. Only one person is elder to N. The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. S is 2nd to the left of N. R is the youngest person and neighbour of T. P is one month elder to Q. O is 3rd to the left of R. P is facing outside. The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. S is elder to O. Which of the following combination is correct?
(a) P-March
(b) T-May
(c) O-July
(d) M-February
(e) S- July

Q.52)
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Eight persons M, N, O, P, Q, R, S and T are sitting around a square table. They are sitting in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the square while four sit in the middle of each of the four sides. The ones who sit at four corners face inside while those who sit in the middle of the sides face outside. They were born in different months from January to August but in the same year, not necessarily in the same order. Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. The number of person elder to T is same as younger to P. Only one person is elder to N. The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. S is 2nd to the left of N. R is the youngest person and neighbour of T. P is one month elder to Q. O is 3rd to the left of R. P is facing outside. The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. S is elder to O. Which of the following person does not belong to the group?
(a) N
(b) S
(c) R
(d) Q
(e) O

Q.53)
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Eight persons M, N, O, P, Q, R, S and T are sitting around a square table. They are sitting in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the square while four sit in the middle of each of the four sides. The ones who sit at four corners face inside while those who sit in the middle of the sides face outside. They were born in different months from January to August but in the same year, not necessarily in the same order. Q was born in a month which has 30 days and facing the centre. The one who is 3rd to the right of Q is 2 months elder to Q. The number of person elder to T is same as younger to P. Only one person is elder to N. The one who was born in June is 2nd to the right of the one who was born in February. S is 2nd to the left of N. R is the youngest person and neighbour of T. P is one month elder to Q. O is 3rd to the left of R. P is facing outside. The one who was born in January is 2nd to the left of O. S is elder to O. Who among the following is not elder to P?
(a) T
(b) O
(c) S
(d) M
(e) N

Q.54)
 What is Q’s position with respect to M when L, M, N, O, P and Q are sitting around a circle facing the centre? I. L is second to the left of O who is sitting immediate left of P. II. M and N are immediate neighbour of each other and M is sitting immediate left of L.
(a) Data in statement I alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in Statement II alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(b) Data in statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in statement I alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(c) Data in statements I alone or in Statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question.
(d) Data in both the Statements I and II are not sufficient to answer the question.
(e) Data in both the Statements I and II together are necessary to answer the question.

Q.55)
 On a T.V. channel, four movie A, B, C and D were screened, one on each day, on four consecutive days but not necessarily in that order. On which day was the movie C screened? I. The first movie was screened on 23rd, Tuesday and was followed by movie D II. Movie A was not screened on 25th and one movie was screened between serials A and B
(a) Data in statement I alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in Statement II alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(b) Data in statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in statement I alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(c) Data in statements I alone or in Statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question.
(d) Data in both the Statements I and II are not sufficient to answer the question.
(e) Data in both the Statements I and II together are necessary to answer the question.

Q.56)
 What is the meaning of the code ‘pullu’ in a code language? I. In that code language ‘rem tez kullu pullu tullu’ means ‘sher singh is my son’ and ‘gullu sullu rullu pullu’ means ‘is he at home’. II. In that code language ‘nel pullu kullu dela’ means ‘my daughter is nirmala’ and ‘setha gama lala’ means ‘sit with me’.
(a) Data in statement I alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in Statement II alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(b) Data in statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in statement I alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(c) Data in statements I alone or in Statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question.
(d) Data in both the Statements I and II are not sufficient to answer the question.
(e) Data in both the Statements I and II together are necessary to answer the question.

Q.57)
 How many person standing between Rohit and Vijay in a straight line of 15 persons(Note: all are standing in a straight line facing north). I. Ajay stands eleventh from the right end of the line. Vijay stands exactly at the center of the line. There are as many persons to the right of Rohit as there are to the left of Ajay. II. Rahul stands fourth from the left end of the line. Ajay is the immediate neighbor of Rahul. Only two person stand between Vijay and Ajay. Only two person Stand between Rohit and Ajay.
(a) Data in statement I alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in Statement II alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(b) Data in statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in statement I alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(c) Data in statements I alone or in Statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question.
(d) Data in both the Statements I and II are not sufficient to answer the question.
(e) Data in both the Statements I and II together are necessary to answer the question.

Q.58)
 Among M, N, O, P, Q and R, each having a different height, who is the second tallest? I. M is taller than only O. N is taller than P shorter than R. Q is shorter than N. II. Q is taller than only three persons. P is taller than M but shorter than R. N is shorter than R taller than P.
(a) Data in statement I alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in Statement II alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(b) Data in statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in statement I alone are not sufficient to answer the question.
(c) Data in statements I alone or in Statement II alone are sufficient to answer the question.
(d) Data in both the Statements I and II are not sufficient to answer the question.
(e) Data in both the Statements I and II together are necessary to answer the question.

Q.59) 
Study the following information and answer the questions given below: Point A is 3m east of point B. Point D 4m north of point of C. Point K 7m west of point J. Point D 4m south of point of A. Point L 4m south of point G who 6m west of point F. Point E 5m east of point C and point B 5m north of point F. Point M 5m south of point E who 4m west of point N. Point K 3m north of Q. Point I is 4m east of point A. Point J is in 6m north of I. What is shortest distance between point N and point K?
(a) 340m
(b) m
(c) 75m
(d) m
(e) Both b and c

Q.60)
Study the following information and answer the questions given below: Point A is 3m east of point B. Point D 4m north of point of C. Point K 7m west of point J. Point D 4m south of point of A. Point L 4m south of point G who 6m west of point F. Point E 5m east of point C and point B 5m north of point F. Point M 5m south of point E who 4m west of point N. Point K 3m north of Q. Point I is 4m east of point A. Point J is in 6m north of I. If Point W 3m east of point J and point V 4m north of point W. what is shortest distance between point V and point L?
(a) m
(b) m
(c) √(617) m
(d) 24 m
(e) m

Q.61)
Study the following information and answer the questions given below: Point A is 3m east of point B. Point D 4m north of point of C. Point K 7m west of point J. Point D 4m south of point of A. Point L 4m south of point G who 6m west of point F. Point E 5m east of point C and point B 5m north of point F. Point M 5m south of point E who 4m west of point N. Point K 3m north of Q. Point I is 4m east of point A. Point J is in 6m north of I. In which direction point M respect of point Q?
(a) North
(b) South
(c) North east
(d) south west
(e) South east

Q.62) 
Direction: In the question given below, one statement is followed by three assumptions numbered I, II, and III. Read the statement carefully and decide which of the given assumptions are implicit in the statement. Statement: Overwhelmed with grief and anger, families have been returning to what is left of their homes in the Old City of Mosul, following its liberation from Isis, the terrorist organization. Assumptions: I. The terrorist organization, Isis, destroyed the Old City of Mosul before they left. II. Most of the residents of Mosul had left/ been driven away when Isis took over their city. III. None of the residents of Mosul supported Isis, which is why they left the city.
(a) If only assumption I is implicit
(b) If only assumption II is implicit
(c) If only assumption III is implicit
(d) If both assumptions I and II are implicit
(e) If none of the assumptions are implicit

Q.63) 
Direction: The question below, there is a statement followed by two conclusions numbered I and II. You have to assume everything in the statement to be true. Then consider the 2 conclusion together and decide which of them follows beyond a reasonable doubt from the information given in the statement. Statement: The Nobel Peace Prize conferred on the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons(ICAN) is equally a recognition for the 122 countries that backed the 2017 UN treaty this summer to ban the bomb. Conclusions: I. Nobel peace prize highlights the urgent need to outlaw nuclear weapons II. Countries do not give importance to Nobel prize
(a) Only conclusion I follows
(b) Only conclusion II follows
(c) Both conclusion I and II follows
(d) Neither conclusion I nor II follows
(e) Either conclusion I or II follows

Q.64) 
Direction: A statement is given followed by three inferences numbered I, II, and III. Consider the statement to be true even if it is at variance with commonly known facts. You have to decide which of the inferences, if any, follow from the given statement. Statement: 17 million children in the US have or have had a psychiatric disorder, but there are currently less than 60,000 beds to accommodate them. Inferences: I. The US government does not give too much importance to the difficult issue of mental health. II. Funding is limited for mental health issues and for medical aid in general in the United States. III. The US has the maximum number of children who suffer from psychiatric disorders.
(a) Only I follows
(b) Only II follows
(c) Both I and II follow
(d) Only III follows
(e) Both II and III follow

Q.65)
Direction: A statement is given followed by three inferences numbered I, II, and III. Consider the statement to be true even if it is at variance with commonly known facts. You have to decide which of the inferences, if any, follow from the given statement. Statement: Recent radar scans of Tutankhamun's tomb conclusively prove that there are no additional chambers or passages behind the walls of the famed pharaoh's burial chamber in the Valley of the Kings, Egyptian officials announced today. Inferences: I. It was previously assumed that there were secrets chambers or other mysteries hidden behind Tutankhamun’s burial chamber. II. King Tutankhamun is one of the most well-known pharaohs in the world. III. Radar scans penetrate wood, concrete, and other walls and help figure out what’s there on the other side.
(a) Only I follows
(b) Only II follows
(c) Only III follows
(d) All of them follow
(e) None of them follows

Q.66)
 Direction: In the question given below, a statement is given followed by three courses of action. A course of action is taken for improvement, follow up, etc. Read the statement carefully and give your answer accordingly. Statement: Children are more susceptible than adults to diseases caused by chemical pesticide residues in food, a recent research report by a food committee states. Courses of Action: I. Every family should have a kitchen garden where they can grow their own food. II. Parents should try and ensure that children eat more organic and locally grown food that is free of pesticides. III. Parents and children should keep a tab on which fruits and vegetables have higher levels of pesticide residue and try and avoid them.
(a) Only course of action I follows
(b) Only course of action II follows
(c) Both I and II follow
(d) Both II and III follow
(e) None of them follow

Q.67) 
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Less than 10 persons are sitting in a straight line and facing north. The persons whom are sitting at the both ends like Fruits and the persons whom are sitting in the middle like Colors. C likes Banana. Two persons are sitting between C and E. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. B is neighbor of E. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black. If D likes Apple then how many persons are between D and F?
(a) None
(b) 1
(c) 2
(d) 3
(e) 4


Q.68)
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Less than 10 persons are sitting in a straight line and facing north. The persons whom are sitting at the both ends like Fruits and the persons whom are sitting in the middle like Colors. C likes Banana. Two persons are sitting between C and E. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. B is neighbor of E. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black. Who among the following sits 2nd to the left of E?
(a) B
(b) A
(c) G
(d) C
(e) F

Q.69)
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Less than 10 persons are sitting in a straight line and facing north. The persons whom are sitting at the both ends like Fruits and the persons whom are sitting in the middle like Colors. C likes Banana. Two persons are sitting between C and E. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. B is neighbor of E. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black. A likes which of the following?
(a) Pink
(b) Apple
(c) Blue
(d) Black
(e) Brown

Q.70)
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Less than 10 persons are sitting in a straight line and facing north. The persons whom are sitting at the both ends like Fruits and the persons whom are sitting in the middle like Colors. C likes Banana. Two persons are sitting between C and E. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. B is neighbor of E. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black. Which of the following is TRUE?
(a) F is at one of the ends
(b) E sits exactly in the middle
(c) G likes Blue
(d) F likes Apple
(e) Two persons are sitting between A and B

Q.71) 
Study the information given below and answer the questions based on it. Less than 10 persons are sitting in a straight line and facing north. The persons whom are sitting at the both ends like Fruits and the persons whom are sitting in the middle like Colors. C likes Banana. Two persons are sitting between C and E. Two persons are sitting between G and B who likes Pink. A is 3rd to the left of F. F is neighbor of B. The one who likes Apple sits 2nd to the right of B. B is neighbor of E. The number of persons between the one who likes Pink and the one who likes Banana is same as the one who likes Apple and the one who likes Blue. Two persons are sitting between the one who likes Blue and the one who likes Brown. The one who likes Red sits 2nd to the left of the one who likes Black. How many persons are sitting between C and the one who likes brown?
(a) 6
(b) 4
(c) 8
(d) 9
(e) 5

Q.72) 
Statements: Some jacket is shirt. Some shirts are trouser. No shoes are t-shirt. All trousers are shoes. All pants are t-shirt. Conclusions: I. All shirts being t-shirt is a possibility. II. Some shoes are trouser. III. Some jackets are t-shirt. IV. Some shirts being t-shirt is a possibility.
(a) Only II and III follow.
(b) Only II and IV follow
(c) Only I follows
(d) All follow
(e) None of these

Q.73) 
Statement: No colour is paper. Some paper is book. All books are eraser. All pens are colour. Conclusions: I. Some papers are eraser. II. All pens being eraser is a possibility. III. Some pens are eraser. IV. Some pens are not eraser.
(a) I and II follow
(b) I and II and either III or IV follows
(c) I and IV follow
(d) All follow
(e) None of these

Q.74) Statement: Some laptops are charger. Some chargers are mobile. No mobile is wire. Some wires are cable. Conclusion: I. Some laptops are mobile. II. Some laptops can be mobile. III. All charger being cable is a possibility.
(a) I, II, III follow
(b) II and III follow
(c) I and II follow
(d) None follow
(e) None of these

Q.75) 
Statement: All schools are college. Some college are hostel. All hostels are building. No building is land. Conclusion: I. Some land being hostel is a possibility. II. Some hostel is school. III. Some buildings are college. IV. All buildings are school.
(a) II and IV follow
(b) I and III follow
(c) Only IV follows
(d) Only III follows
(e) None of these

Q.76) 
Statement: All watch are time. All time are clock. Some watch is period. Some late is period. Conclusion: I. Some clocks are period. II. Some time is watch. III. Some late are time. IV. All watch are clock.
(a) II and III follow
(b) Only I follows
(c) I, II and IV follow
(d) All follow
(e) None of these

Q.77) 
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. In a family of 9 members- Jyotsna, Lavanya, Mahesh, Megha, Prem, Priya, Ram, Supriya, and Vijay. There are 2 married couples in the family. Further following information is known:
How is Ram related to Lavanya?
(a) Mother-in-law
(b) Father-in-law
(c) Either a) or b)
(d) Can't be determined
(e) None of these

Q.78)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. In a family of 9 members- Jyotsna, Lavanya, Mahesh, Megha, Prem, Priya, Ram, Supriya, and Vijay. There are 2 married couples in the family. Further following information is known: How many male members are there in the family?
(a) 4
(b) 3
(c) 5
(d) Can't be determined
(e) None of these

Q.79)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. In a family of 9 members- Jyotsna, Lavanya, Mahesh, Megha, Prem, Priya, Ram, Supriya, and Vijay. There are 2 married couples in the family. Further following information is known: Who is the paternal aunt of Megha?
(a) Priya
(b) Jyotsna
(c) Lavanya
(d) Can't be determined
(e) None of these

Q.80)
Read the following information carefully to answer the given questions. In a family of 9 members- Jyotsna, Lavanya, Mahesh, Megha, Prem, Priya, Ram, Supriya, and Vijay. There are 2 married couples in the family. Further following information is known: If Mahesh is married to Sucheta, how is Sucheta related to Supriya?
(a) Mother
(b) Father
(c) Grandmother
(d) Grandfather
(e) Can't be determined

Q.81)
Study the following information carefully and answer the given questions: 6 persons P, Q, R, S, T and V travel to Delhi either on 2nd or 30th of 4 different months, each having exactly 30 days. Each of them drives a different car - Alto, Breeza, Creta, Ferrari, Mercedes and Swift but not necessarily in the same order. There are 2 days on which no person travels to Delhi. T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. Both P and V travels in a same month. Only 3 persons travel on each particular date (i.e. 3 persons travel on 2nd and 3 persons travel on 30th). Only 4 persons can travel between T and Q. Person who drives Breeza travels on 30th . P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. No one travels between V and T. S drives Breeza but not in April. Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. Who travels to Delhi on 2nd april?
(a) Q
(b) R
(c) V
(d) P
(e) can not be determined

Q.82)
Study the following information carefully and answer the given questions: 6 persons P, Q, R, S, T and V travel to Delhi either on 2nd or 30th of 4 different months, each having exactly 30 days. Each of them drives a different car - Alto, Breeza, Creta, Ferrari, Mercedes and Swift but not necessarily in the same order. There are 2 days on which no person travels to Delhi. T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. Both P and V travels in a same month. Only 3 persons travel on each particular date (i.e. 3 persons travel on 2nd and 3 persons travel on 30th). Only 4 persons can travel between T and Q. Person who drives Breeza travels on 30th . P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. No one travels between V and T. S drives Breeza but not in April. Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. Who travels immediately after one who drives Breeza?
(a) Q
(b) R
(c) P
(d) V
(e) T

Q.83)
Study the following information carefully and answer the given questions: 6 persons P, Q, R, S, T and V travel to Delhi either on 2nd or 30th of 4 different months, each having exactly 30 days. Each of them drives a different car - Alto, Breeza, Creta, Ferrari, Mercedes and Swift but not necessarily in the same order. There are 2 days on which no person travels to Delhi. T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. Both P and V travels in a same month. Only 3 persons travel on each particular date (i.e. 3 persons travel on 2nd and 3 persons travel on 30th). Only 4 persons can travel between T and Q. Person who drives Breeza travels on 30th . P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. No one travels between V and T. S drives Breeza but not in April. Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. Which of the following statement(s) is true?
(a) Only 1 person travels between S and Q.
(b) T travels on 30th September.
(c) V drives Creta
(d) No one travels between S and P.
(e) All the given statements are true

Q.84)
Study the following information carefully and answer the given questions: 6 persons P, Q, R, S, T and V travel to Delhi either on 2nd or 30th of 4 different months, each having exactly 30 days. Each of them drives a different car - Alto, Breeza, Creta, Ferrari, Mercedes and Swift but not necessarily in the same order. There are 2 days on which no person travels to Delhi. T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. Both P and V travels in a same month. Only 3 persons travel on each particular date (i.e. 3 persons travel on 2nd and 3 persons travel on 30th). Only 4 persons can travel between T and Q. Person who drives Breeza travels on 30th . P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. No one travels between V and T. S drives Breeza but not in April. Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. How many persons travel between S and P?
(a) None
(b) 1
(c) 2
(d) 3
(e) More than 3

Q.85)
Study the following information carefully and answer the given questions: 6 persons P, Q, R, S, T and V travel to Delhi either on 2nd or 30th of 4 different months, each having exactly 30 days. Each of them drives a different car - Alto, Breeza, Creta, Ferrari, Mercedes and Swift but not necessarily in the same order. There are 2 days on which no person travels to Delhi. T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. Both P and V travels in a same month. Only 3 persons travel on each particular date (i.e. 3 persons travel on 2nd and 3 persons travel on 30th). Only 4 persons can travel between T and Q. Person who drives Breeza travels on 30th . P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. No one travels between V and T. S drives Breeza but not in April. Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. Who travels on 30th April?
(a) S
(b) V
(c) T
(d) R
(e) None of these

Q.86)
It is believed that algae grows faster in slow-flowing water. On the other hand, it is also argued that growth of algae causes hindrance to the flow of water. As more algae grows the speed at which water flows decreases. Which of the following, if true, would most appropriately weaken the argument that growth of algae reduces speed of water?
(a) Algae grows at the same rate in still water as the rate at which it grows in flowing water.
(b) Algae grows faster in shallow water than in deep water.
(c) Propagation of algae takes place faster in flowing water than in still water.
(d) The South African perennial rivers, which flow very fast throughout the year, are home to a large variety of algae.
(e) The rivers closer to the equator, which receive good amount of sunlight throughout the year and have the thickest algae population, are the fastest-flowing rivers.

Q.87)
Study the following information carefully and answer the given questions: 6 persons P, Q, R, S, T and V travel to Delhi either on 2nd or 30th of 4 different months, each having exactly 30 days. Each of them drives a different car - Alto, Breeza, Creta, Ferrari, Mercedes and Swift but not necessarily in the same order. There are 2 days on which no person travels to Delhi. T travels to Delhi on 30th of a month by Swift. Both P and V travels in a same month. Only 3 persons travel on each particular date (i.e. 3 persons travel on 2nd and 3 persons travel on 30th). Only 4 persons can travel between T and Q. Person who drives Breeza travels on 30th . P travels to Delhi before T but after Q. No one travels between V and T. S drives Breeza but not in April. Number of persons travelling before T are same as that of travelling after the one who is driving Alto. One who drives Mercedes travels immediately after Creta. Direction: In the following question is given a statement followed by two assumptions numbered I and II. You have to consider the statement and the following assumptions and decide which of the assumptions is implicit in the statement. Statement:"You are hereby appointed as a curriculum developer with a period of probation that shall last for 6 months; at the end of which you will be confirmed or let go as per your performance evaluation"- A line in an offer letter. Assumptions: I. The performance of any professional can usually not be measured at the time of offering the job. II. The probation period is for the professional to prove his capabilities.
(a) If only assumption I is implicit
(b) If only assumption II is implicit
(c) If either I or II is implicit
(d) If neither I nor II is implicit
(e) If both I and II are implicit

Q.88)
Direction: Study the following information carefully to answer the given question. I. The destiny of Asia will be shaped by the triangular relationship between the Asian nations, India, China and Japan. II. India, China and Japan which have registered a phenomenal growth, over the last decade in particular, has acted as southern engines of growth for the whole world.
(a) If statement I is the cause and statement II is its effect;
(b) If statement II is the cause and statement I is its effect;
(c) If both the statements I and II are independent causes;
(d) If both the statements I and II are effects of independent causes;
(e) If both the statements I and II are effects of some common cause.

Q.89) 
The number of freelancers and consultants are at a steep rise in India. The credit for this goes to wider internet penetration. People prefer to work on their own terms and conditions and still make more money than what they could make in a 9-5 job. But tax filing is something which scares them a lot here. We are dealing with the tax implications for freelancers, bloggers and consultants in India. Mostly freelancers and consultants ask the question whether they have to pay income tax on their income. The answer is yes and in addition to income tax, they are also liable to pay service tax if their gross income is more than 10 lakh from freelancing as per the rate prescribed by the government. Freelancer is a term which refers to the person who is self-employed not working or committed to a particular employer or client for the long-term anywhere. Within Indian law, if you are running your own business then you are termed as the sole proprietor and the same thing applied to the freelancers. Inference: No one likes to work in 9-5 jobs.
(a) Inference is definitely true
(b) Inference is probably true
(c) Data is inadequate
(d) Inference is probably false
(e) Inference is definitely false

Q.90)
The number of freelancers and consultants are at a steep rise in India. The credit for this goes to wider internet penetration. People prefer to work on their own terms and conditions and still make more money than what they could make in a 9-5 job. But tax filing is something which scares them a lot here. We are dealing with the tax implications for freelancers, bloggers and consultants in India. Mostly freelancers and consultants ask the question whether they have to pay income tax on their income. The answer is yes and in addition to income tax, they are also liable to pay service tax if their gross income is more than 10 lakh from freelancing as per the rate prescribed by the government. Freelancer is a term which refers to the person who is self-employed not working or committed to a particular employer or client for the long-term anywhere. Within Indian law, if you are running your own business then you are termed as the sole proprietor and the same thing applied to the freelancers. Inference: If the income of freelancers is more than 10 lakh then they are liable to pay service tax.
(a) Inference is definitely true
(b) Inference is probably true
(c) Data is inadequate
(d) Inference is probably false
(e) Inference is definitely false

Q.91) 
Direction: Find the wrong term in the given series: 27, 34, 51, 75, 107, 147, 195
(a) 34
(b) 51
(c) 27
(d) 75
(e) 147

Q.92) 
Direction: Find the wrong term in the given series: 10, 4.5, 3.5, 5, 16, 122, 1904
(a) 3.5
(b) 5
(c) 10
(d) 75
(e) 122

Q.93)
Direction: Find the wrong term in the given series: 800, 678, 579, 497, 434, 385, 349
(a) 494
(b) 385
(c) 800
(d) 579
(e) 349

Q.94) 
Direction: Find the wrong term in the given series: 1, 12, 120, 960, 5780, 23040, 46080
(a) 12
(b) 960
(c) 23040
(d) 5780
(e) 1

Q.95) 
Direction: Find the wrong term in the given series: 7, 11, 19, 35, 68, 131
(a) 19
(b) 11
(c) 68
(d) 7
(e) 131

Q.96) 
There was a loss of 22% after selling an article at 40% discount. So, the shopkeeper had increased the marked price of the article by 40% but had allowed the same discount percent. If he earned Rs. 184 as profit after increasing the marked price then find the cost price of the article.
(a) Rs. 2200
(b) Rs. 2000
(c) Rs. 2100
(d) Rs. 2500
(e) Rs. 1600

Q.97) 
A shopkeeper sells two products A and B. He sells product A at x% profit and product B at 8% loss. The total selling price of both products is Rs. 4344 and the cost price of product A and product B are in the ratio of 4: 3, respectively. If the shopkeeper had sold product A at the loss percent equal to the loss percent incurred on selling product B, then its selling price would have been Rs. 2208. Find out the value of x.
(a) 12%
(b) 15%
(c) 14%
(d) 9%
(e) None of these

Q.98) 
Amit, Bharat and Chirag started a business with their investments in the ratio 1: 2: 4. After 6 months, Amit invested half the amount more than before; Bharat invested twice the amount more as before while Chirag withdrew 1/4th of his investment. What will be the ratio of their profits at the end of the year?
(a) 5: 16: 14
(b) 16: 5: 14
(c) 14: 5: 12
(d) 14: 12: 5
(e) None of these

Q.99) 
A jar contains a mixture of two liquids A and B in the ratio 4:1. When 10 Lt. of the mixture was taken out and 10 Lt. of liquid B was poured into the jar, this ratio becomes 2:3. The quantity of liquid A contained in the jar initially was:
(a) 10 Lt.
(b) 12 Lt.
(c) 14 Lt.
(d) 18 Lt.
(e) 16 Lt.

Q.100) 
Akash borrowed Rs 12000 from a bank at the rate of 6% for 8 years. After a certain period of time, the government introduced a scheme which reduced the interest rate by 3%. At the end of 8 years, Akash paid Rs 16680 in total then after how much time the government introduced the scheme?
(a) 6
(b) 5
(c) 2
(d) 3
(e) None of these.

Q.101) 
School,Total student,Boy : Girl,Pass : Fail,% of students who got scholarship P,,,"7:9",,65 Q,1500,,"8:7",, R,,"4:5",,60 S,1800,,"5:4",, T,,"9:5",,40 U,1500,"12:13",,20 If 25% of the boys in school U got scholarship, then find how many girls didn’t receive scholarship?
(a) 624
(b) 660
(c) 760
(d) 550
(e) None of these

Q.102)
School,Total student,Boy : Girl,Pass : Fail,% of students who got scholarship P,,,"7:9",,65 Q,1500,,"8:7",, R,,"4:5",,60 S,1800,,"5:4",, T,,"9:5",,40 U,1500,"12:13",,20 60% of the students who passed the exam in school Q are boys and percentage of girls who passed the exam is 80%, then find the number of boys in school Q?
(a) 1000
(b) 1120
(c) 1080
(d) 1100
(e) 950

Q.103)
School,Total student,Boy : Girl,Pass : Fail,% of students who got scholarship P,,,"7:9",,65 Q,1500,,"8:7",, R,,"4:5",,60 S,1800,,"5:4",, T,,"9:5",,40 U,1500,"12:13",,20 If the difference between the Boys and Girls in school P is 180, then find how many Student in school P didn’t get scholarship?
(a) 504
(b) 320
(c) 424
(d) 532
(e) 394

Q.104)
School,Total student,Boy : Girl,Pass : Fail,% of students who got scholarship P,,,"7:9",,65 Q,1500,,"8:7",, R,,"4:5",,60 S,1800,,"5:4",, T,,"9:5",,40 U,1500,"12:13",,20 If the number of students who received scholarship in school R is 540 and 20% of the boys in school R received Scholarship then find how much percentage of girls received scholarship out of total girls in school R.
(a) 48
(b) 98
(c) 74
(d) 92
(e) None of these

Q.105)
School,Total student,Boy : Girl,Pass : Fail,% of students who got scholarship P,,,"7:9",,65 Q,1500,,"8:7",, R,,"4:5",,60 S,1800,,"5:4",, T,,"9:5",,40 U,1500,"12:13",,20 If 20% of the students who passed the examination in school S received Scholarship then find number girls who received scholarship if 120 boys from school S received scholarship?
(a) 85
(b) 92
(c) 86
(d) 78
(e) 80

Q.106) 
Direction: Given below are two quantities named I and II. Based on the given information, you have to determine the relation between the two quantities. You should use the given data and your knowledge of Mathematics to choose among the possible answers. Quantity I: 2x2+ 29x+ 50=0 Quantity II: 3y2+ 18y+ 27=0
(a) Quantity I> Quantity II
(b) Quantity I ≥ Quantity II
(c) Quantity II> Quantity I
(d) Quantity II ≥ Quantity I
(e) Quantity I= Quantity II or Relation cannot be established

Q.107) 
Direction: Given below are two quantities named I and II. Based on the given information, you have to determine the relation between the two quantities. You should use the given data and your knowledge of Mathematics to choose among the possible answers. Quantity I: Number of perfect cubes each of side 3mm that can be cut out of a solid cuboid of dimensions 3cm x 30cm x 30cm. Quantity II: Number of perfect cuboids of dimensions 3mm x 30mm x 30mm that can be cut out of a cube of side 30cm.
(a) Quantity I< Quantity II
(b) Quantity I> Quantity II
(c) Quantity I= Quantity II
(d) No relation
(e) Data inadequate

Q.108) 
Direction: Given below are two quantities named I and II. Based on the given information, you have to determine the relation between the two quantities. You should use the given data and your knowledge of Mathematics to choose among the possible answers. Quantity I: Ram invested a sum of Rs. 52, 000 in scheme offering compound interest at the rate of 10% per annum. Find the interest earned by him after 3 years. Quantity II: Rahim invested Rs. 28, 750 in a scheme offering simple interest at the rate of 20% per annum. Find the interest earned by him after 3 years.
(a) Quantity I> Quantity II
(b) Quantity I< Quantity II
(c) Quantity I ≥ Quantity II
(d) Quantity I ≤ Quantity II
(e) Quantity I= Quantity II or No relation

Q.109) 
Direction: Given below are two quantities named I and II. Based on the given information, you have to determine the relation between the two quantities. You should use the given data and your knowledge of Mathematics to choose among the possible answers. Quantity I: The present age of three business colleague, Sumit, Anil and Deepak is in proportion 5: 7: 8 respectively. Seven years ago, the sum of their ages was 79. Find the present age of Deepak in years. Quantity II: A daughter’s present age is three- fifth of the age of her mother. After seven years, she will be 2/3rd of the age of her mother. Find mother’s present age in years.
(a) Quantity I> Quantity II
(b) Quantity I ≥ Quantity II
(c) Quantity I< Quantity II
(d) Quantity I ≤ Quantity II
(e) Quantity I= Quantity II or no relation.

Q.110) 
Direction: Given below are two quantities named I and II. Based on the given information, you have to determine the relation between the two quantities. You should use the given data and your knowledge of Mathematics to choose among the possible answers. Quantity I: one day Sandeep on tour travels first 160 km at 64 km/hr and the next 160 km at 80 km/hr. The average speed of the tour is: Quantity II: Sandeep went from Patna to Giridih with the speed of 60km/hr. and return back with the speed of 90km/hr. Find the average speed.
(a) Quantity I> Quantity II
(b) Quantity I ≥ Quantity II
(c) Quantity II> Quantity I
(d) Quantity II ≥ Quantity I
(e) Quantity I= Quantity II or Relation cannot be established

Q.111) 
If in the year 2015 the company has the same profit margin which it had in the year 2013 then find the sale price of the year 2015.
(a) INR 682400
(b) INR 686400
(c) INR 681600
(d) INR 860000
(e) INR 850000

Q.112) 
In the year 2011, the company sells 15 products. Out of total revenue earned, the company donated 1/9th to charity. Find the amount given to charity.
(a) INR 3,00,000
(b) INR 30,000
(c) INR 5,00,000
(d) INR 50,000
(e) None of these

Q.113) 
By what percentage is the profit earned by the company in the year 2012 is more/less than the profit earned in 2014?
(a) 50% more
(b) 50% less
(c) 150% more
(d) 150% less
(e) 250% more

Q.114) 
If there is no overhead expenditure then in which year company had the lowest profit percentage?
(a) 2012
(b) 2013
(c) 2014
(d) 2015
(e) 2016

Q.115) 
If in the year 2017, the overhead expenditure of the product increase by 45% of that of 2016 then the overhead expenditure of 2017 is what percentage more than the overhead expenditure of the year 2011?
(a) %
(b) %
(c) %
(d) %
(e) 48.27%

Q.116)
Alekh and Alia can together do a piece of work in 5 days which Alia and Aman together can do in 15 days. After Alekh has been working at it for 4 days and Alia for 5 days, Aman then takes up and completes the work alone in 4 days. In how many days can Alia do the work alone?
(a) 30 days
(b) 45 days
(c) 50 days
(d) 25 days
(e) None of these

Q.117) 
There are two circles of different radius such that radius of the smaller circle is three – sevens that of the larger circle.
A square whose area equals 3969 sq cm has its side as thrice the radius of the larger circle. What is the approximate circumference of the smaller circle?
(a) 52 cm
(b) 56 cm
(c) 49 cm
(d) 65 cm
(e) 60 cm

Q.118) 
A train Pawan express of length 380 m running with the speed of 108 km/h crosses a platform of certain length in 37 seconds. Another train, Toofan express of certain length running with a speed of 90 km/h crosses the platform in 42.6 seconds. What will be the time taken by both trains to cross each other if they run in opposite directions.
(a) 12 seconds
(b) 10 seconds
(c) 9 seconds
(d) 14 seconds
(e) 13 seconds

Q.119) 
Mithu bhai sells rasgulla at Rs. 15 per kg. A rasgulla is madeup of flour and sugar in the ratio of quantity 5: 3. The ratio of price per kg of sugar and flour is 7: 3. Thus, he earns 200/3% profit. What is the cost price of sugar per kg?
(a) Rs. 10/kg
(b) Rs. 9/kg
(c) Rs. 18/kg
(d) Rs. 14/kg
(e) Rs. 12/kg

Q.120) 
A mango and a orange cost s Rs. 200& Rs. 100 respectively. If the price of mango and orange is increased by 20% and 25%. If a person wants to buy 10 mangoes and 5 oranges then what is percentage change in the total amount spent by him after increase in the price.
(a) 22
(b) 25
(c) 21
(d) 26
(e) None of these

Q.121)
Where is the headquarter of the Arab League?
(a) Cairo, Egypt
(b) Abu Dhabi, UAE
(c) Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
(d) Doha, Qatar
(e) Muscat, Oman

Q.122) 
Which of the following organ have the capacity to regenerate?
(a) Liver
(b) Brain
(c) Intestine
(d) Pancreas
(e) None of the above

Q.123) 
Under the chairmanship of which of the following committees, it was recommended a five-pronged strategy Project'SASHAKT' to deal with non-performing assets in the country's banking system?
(a) E Sreedharan committee
(b) Rajesh Bindal committee
(c) Sunil Mehta committee
(d) Subhash chandra garg committee
(e) N gopalaswami committee

Q.124) 
Vidyadhar Bhattacharya was the architect of which city?
(a) Pushkar
(b) Ajmer
(c) Jaipur
(d) Jodhpur
(e) Agra

Q.125) 
Rohingya tribe belong to which country?
(a) Thailand
(b) Bangladesh
(c) Myanmar
(d) Afghanistan
(e) Pakistan

Q.126) 
Kylian Mbappe is related to which sport?
(a) Cricket
(b) Basketball
(c) Football
(d) Badminton
(e) None of these

Q.127) 
What is the Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) at present?
(a) 20.25%
(b) 19.75%
(c) 19.25%
(d) 21.25%
(e) 19.50%

Q.128) 
Which of the following countries is the global host nation for the 43rd edition of World Environment Day-2018 event?
(a) China
(b) USA
(c) India
(d) Iran
(e) Japan

Q.129) 
The UN Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises(MSME) Day is celebrated on _______.
(a) June 13
(b) June 16
(c) June 27
(d) June 15
(e) June 17

Q.130) 
Which committee recommended the Reserve Bank of India(RBI) to set up Public Credit Registry(PCR) to check loan defaults?
(a) AK Bhuchar Committee
(b) B Venkatappaiah Committee
(c) Goiporia Committee
(d) L K Jha Committee
(e) YM Deosthalee committee

Q.131) 
Which Indian sportsperson has been named as the Sports Ambassador of Assam?
(a) Mary Kom
(b) Hima Das
(c) Dutee Chand
(d) Saina Nehwal
(e) Rahul Dravid

Q.132) 
The Headquarter of The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank(AIIB) is located in?
(a) Beijing
(b) Shanghai
(c) Xinijiang
(d) Hong Kong
(e) Xian

Q.133) 
In June 2018, the Reserve Bank of India conducted a Financial Literacy Week with the focus on creating banking awareness. Which of the following was the theme of the Financial Literacy Week?
(a) ‘Know Your Customer’
(b) ‘Customer Protection’
(c) ‘Know Your Bank’
(d) ‘Safe Banking’
(e) Other than the given options

Q.134) 
On August 6, 1945, the first nuclear bomb was dropped in which city?
(a) Hiroshima
(b) Tokyo
(c) Nagasaki
(d) Yakohama
(e) Sendai

Q.135) 
Where is the headquarters of INTERPOL?
(a) Paris
(b) London
(c) Lyons
(d) Geneva
(e) Rome

Q.136) 
India and Russia have concluded price negotiations for the procurement of which missile?
(a) S-300
(b) S-400
(c) Strela-3
(d) S-125
(e) UR-100

Q.137) 
Which of the following bank listed as Best bank in the private sector?
(a) ICICI Bank
(b) Axis Bank
(c) Yes Bank
(d) HDFC Bank
(e) Kotak Mahindra Bank

Q.138)
'Jallikattu' is typically practised in the which Indian state as a part of Pongal celebrations?
(a) Kerala
(b) Andhra Pradesh
(c) Tamilnadu
(d) Manipur
(e) Assam

Q.139) 
Kishori amonkar died recently. He was associated with which of the following fields?
(a) Classical Vocalist
(b) Classical Dancer
(c) Sports
(d) Politician
(e) Painter

Q.140) 
Which engine has been developed and used by ISRO?
(a) AI-01
(b) GS-10
(c) BE-21
(d) CE-20
(e) CD-2.0

Q.141) 
“Banglore Tiger” book is based on which Indian IT company?
(a) Infosys
(b) TCS
(c) Wipro
(d) HCL
(e) None of these

Q.142) 
Which of the following personalities is known as “Metro Man”?
(a) PV Chandran
(b) Elattuvalapil Sreedharan
(c) Tessy Thomas
(d) Man Mohan Sharma
(e) None of these

Q.143) 
The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons(ICAN) for drawing attention to the “catastrophic humanitarian consequences” of using nuclear weapons and for its efforts in a nuclear treaty. The headquarter of International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons(ICAN) is in_____.
(a) Vienna, Austria
(b) Rome, Italy
(c) Geneva, Switzerland
(d) Melbourne, Australia
(e) Paris, France

Q.144) 
What is the full form of CVV?
(a) Credit Verification Value
(b) Currency Verification Variable
(c) Customer Verification Value
(d) Card Verification Value
(e) None of these

Q.145) 
The initiative, ‘Livelihood and Water Security’ for the states of Haryana and Rajasthan is to be launched under the aegis of which of the following banks?
(a) Dena Bank
(b) HDFC Bank
(c) ICICI Bank
(d) YES Bank
(e) Kotak Mahindra Bank

Q.146) 
Which of the following country is the last to join BRICS association in 2010?
(a) Indonesia
(b) Bangladesh
(c) South Africa
(d) China
(e) Argentina

Q.147) National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) was incorporated in the year 2005. The organisation was set up in the supervision of____.
(a) State Bank of India
(b) Reserve Bank of India
(c) Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(d) National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
(e) Securities and Exchange Board of India

Q.148) 
A new scheme by the name of'RISE' was introduced in the budget 2017-18. RISE stands for___.
(a) Rejuvenating Intermediate and Small scale Enterprises
(b) Renewing Institutional and Societal Establishments
(c) Revitalising Infrastructure and Systems in Education
(d) Reforming Infrastructure and Systems in Evaluation
(e) Relocating Internal and Sub divisional Establishments

Q.149) 
Corporation Bank is a public-sector banking company headquartered in ________.
(a) Kolkata
(b) Mangalore
(c) Chennai
(d) Bengaluru
(e) Mumbai

Q.150) 
Who has been appointed as the first CFO of the Reserve Bank of India?
(a) Sudha Balakrishnan
(b) M.K. Jain
(c) Amitabh Kant
(d) H R Khan
(e) S.S. Mundra

Q.151) 
Who is the current President of South Korea?
(a) Roh Tae-woo
(b) Tshering Tobgay
(c) Moon Jae-in
(d) Park Geun-hye
(e) Sangay Ngedup

Q.152) 
In which one of the following States, Patratu Thermal Power Plant is proposed to be set up?
(a) Madhya Pradesh
(b) Bihar
(c) Jharkhand
(d) West Bengal
(e) Kerala

Q.153) 
Which one of the following is the official mascot of Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games?
(a) Soohorang
(b) Vinicius de Moraes
(c) The Hare, the Polar Bear and the Leopard
(d) Miraitowa
(e) Bandabi

Q.154) 
Where is the headquarters of Asian Development Bank(ADB) located?
(a) Berlin, China
(b) Tokyo, Japan
(c) Moscow, Russia
(d) Shenzhen, China
(e) Mandaluyong, Philippines

Q.155) 
What is the minimum amount required to open an account under Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana(SSY)?
(a) Rs 550
(b) Rs. 450
(c) Rs. 750
(d) Rs. 250
(e) Rs. 1000

Q.156) 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated India's longest rail-road bridge Bogibeel Bridge in which state?
(a) Tripura
(b) Sikkim
(c) Assam
(d) Arunachal Pradesh
(e) Manipur

Q.157) 
“Rani ki vav” is an intricately constructed stepwell situated in____.
(a) Madhya Pradesh
(b) Bihar
(c) Gujarat
(d) Uttar Pradesh
(e) West Bengal

Q.158) 
The headquarter of Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is in_____.
(a) London, UK
(b) Vienna, Austria
(c) Paris, France
(d) Beijing, China
(e) Rome, Italy

Q.159) 
Where is Nokrek national park situated?
(a) Odisha
(b) Gujarat
(c) Rajasthan
(d) Meghalaya
(e) Assam

Q.160) 
What is the name of country whose capital is Lusaka?
(a) Yemen
(b) Uganda
(c) Zambia
(d) Somalia
(e) None of these

Q.161) 
Which of the following indirect taxes are not subsumed under GST?
(a) Service tax
(b) Octroi
(c) VAT
(d) Stamp duty
(e) Luxury tax

Q.162) 
Which city of India has recently been declared as the cleanest city as per the Swachh Bharat Survey?
(a) Bhopal
(b) Surat
(c) Indore
(d) Vadodara
(e) Jaipur

Q.163) 
Recently UNESCO accorded India’s first world heritage City to which of the following cities in India?
(a) Chennai
(b) Varanasi
(c) Hyderabad
(d) Agra
(e) Ahmedabad

Q.164) 
The Salar Jung Museum is an art museum is located in___.
(a) Telangana
(b) Tamil Nadu
(c) West Bengal
(d) Bihar
(e) Madhya Pradesh

Q.165) 
In May 2018, India dragged the US to the World Trade Organisation's dispute settlement mechanism over the imposition of import duties on_____.
(a) crude oil
(b) steel& aluminium
(c) automobiles
(d) electronics product
(e) machinery

Q.166) 
The Union Minister ‘Harsh Vardhan’ has launched a first-ever Industry-Academia mission'National Biopharma Mission'. What is the objective of the'National Biopharma Mission'?
(a) to accelerate biopharmaceutical development in India
(b) to understand the potential of wind energy in different parts of India.
(c) to promote bamboo production and the manufacturing of items
(d) to develop rural areas by providing economic, social and physical infrastructure facilities
(e) None of these

Q.167) 
What is the maximum insurance cover per family under Ayushman Bharat National Health Protection Mission?
(a) Rs. 1 lakh
(b) Rs. 3 lakh
(c) Rs. 2 lakh
(d) Rs. 5 lakh
(e) Rs. 4 lakh

Q.168) 
Sai Praneeth is associated with which of the following sport?
(a) Hockey
(b) Badminton
(c) Chess
(d) Boxing
(e) Football

Q.169) 
India had signed an Open Skies agreement with which country which will allow designated airlines of both signatory countries to operate freely?
(a) Singapore
(b) Russia
(c) France
(d) Japan
(e) Germany

Q.170) 
Pitch Black Exercise is an air exercise between
(a) India and Japan
(b) India and France
(c) India and Nepal
(d) India and USA
(e) India and Australia

Q.171) 
Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has inaugurated the first ever All India Institute of Ayurveda(AIIA). It is being set at which of the following city?
(a) Ahmadabad
(b) New Delhi
(c) Madhya Pradesh
(d) Himachal Pradesh
(e) None of these

Q.172) 
The first woman to conquer Mount Everest twice is
(a) Santosh Yadav
(b) Suma Shirur
(c) Surja Lata Devi
(d) Jyoti Randhawa
(e) Premlata Agarwal

Q.173) 
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit 2018 was held in____.
(a) Astana, Kazakhstan
(b) Qingdao, China
(c) Chelyabinsk, Russia
(d) Xiamen, China
(e) Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan

Q.174) 
Which bank launched ‘Social Pay’ for NRIs?
(a) ICICI Bank
(b) Doha Bank
(c) Axis Bank
(d) HDFC bank
(e) None of the above

Q.175) 
Which of the following section of the Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881 was amended to include the definition of an electronic cheque and that of a truncated cheque?
(a) 7
(b) 8
(c) 2
(d) 5
(e) 6

Q.176) 
As per the Public Affairs Index(PAI) for 2018, which state has topped in the list of best-governed large states in India?
(a) Punjab
(b) Tamil Nadu
(c) Uttar Pradesh
(d) Kerala
(e) Karnataka

Q.177) 
What do you understand by Marginal Standing Facility?
(a) Rate of interest which is levied on Short-Term loans taken by commercial banks from RBI.
(b) Rate at which commercial banks charge on their surplus funds with RBI.
(c) The amount a commercial bank needs to maintain in the form of cash, or gold or government approved securities (Bonds) before providing credit to its customers.
(d) It is defined in Sec 49 of RBI Act 1934 as the ‘standard rate at which RBI is prepared to buy or rediscount bills of exchange or other commercial papers eligible for purchase under this act’.
(e) Marginal standing facility(MSF) is a window for banks to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India in an emergency situation when inter-bank liquidity dries up completely.

Q.178) 
Commerce Min approves 15 projects for infrastructure under TIES. TIES is related to which of the following fields?
(a) MSME
(b) Export
(c) Agriculture
(d) Industry
(e) Education

Q.179)
When a group of lenders fund various portions of a loan to a single borrower, it is called___.
(a) Subsidized loan
(b) Commercial loans
(c) Syndicated Loan
(d) Retail trade loans
(e) Bridge Loan

Q.180) 
The Ramon Magsaysay Award 2018 winner were Sonam Wangchuk and__.
(a) Youk Chhang
(b) Barry Barish
(c) Bharat Vatwani
(d) Vaishali Dev
(e) Howard Dee

Q.181) 
Which of the following committees has been constituted to suggest laws against mob lynching and violence?
(a) AK Bhuchar Committee
(b) B Venkatappaiah Committee
(c) Rajiv Gauba Committee
(d) L K Jha Committee
(e) YM Deosthalee committee

Q.182) 
Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill, 2018 will empower authorities to attach and confiscate properties and assets of economic offenders. For which of the following amounts is the term'fugitive offender' applicable in the domestic territory of India?
(a) Rs. 500 crores
(b) Rs. 1000 crores
(c) Rs. 100 crores
(d) Rs. 200 crores
(e) Rs. 5000 crores

Q.183) 
Who is the author of the book ‘Why I Am a Hindu'?
(a) Shashi Tharoor
(b) Renuka Chowdhury
(c) Kapil Sibal
(d) Praful Patel
(e) None of these

Q.184) 
A banking outlet which does not provide delivery of service for a minimum of __________ per day and for at least 5 days a week will be considered a'Part-time Banking Outlet'.
(a) two hours a day
(b) five hours a day
(c) three hours a day
(d) four hours a day
(e) six hours a day

Q.185) 
Section 22 of Banking Regulations Act, 1949 deals with____.
(a) Prohibits a banking company from creating a charge upon any unpaid capital of the company
(b) Contains a system of licensing of banks by the RBI
(c) Provides that the subscribed capital of a banking company should not be less than one-half of its authorised capital
(d) to allow Banks to open branches
(e) None of the above

Q.186) 
Payment banks are not allowed to 1) Give loans 2) Issue credit cards 3) Accept Deposit
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 only
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) 1, 2 and 3
(e) None of these

Q.187) 
The Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Bansagar canal project in which state?
(a) Madhya Pradesh
(b) Bihar
(c) Uttar Pradesh
(d) Rajasthan
(e) Uttarakhand

Q.188) 
RBI controls inflation by increasing Repo rate. What is the current Repo Rate at present?
(a) 5.50%
(b) 6.0%
(c) 6.25%
(d) 6.50%
(e) 6.75%

Q.189) 
Who among the following won the Golden Ball Award?
(a) Luka Modric
(b) Harry Kane
(c) Thibaut Courtois
(d) Kylian Mbappé
(e) Lionel Messi

Q.190) 
Which of the following city will host the Commonwealth Games in 2022?
(a) Baltimore, USA
(b) Alabama, USA
(c) Birmingham, USA
(d) Birmingham, England
(e) None of these

Q.191) 
In which of the following states, is the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium situated?
(a) Andhra Pradesh
(b) Tamil Nadu
(c) Karnataka
(d) Telangana
(e) Madhya Pradesh

Q.192) 
Hirakud dam is located in which of the following states?
(a) Jharkhand
(b) Chhattisgarh
(c) Odisha
(d) West Bengal
(e) Karnataka

Q.193) 
Haldia Refinery is located in which state?
(a) Assam
(b) Jharkhand
(c) West Bengal
(d) Odisha
(e) Bihar

Q.194)
Where is the headquarter of Jana Small Finance Bank?
(a) Ahmedabad
(b) Kolkata
(c) Mumbai
(d) Chennai
(e) Bengaluru

Q.195) 
Who among the following has authored the book'Hit Refresh'?
(a) Satya Nadella
(b) Tim Cook
(c) Mark Zuckerberg
(d) Bill Gates
(e) Sundar Pichai

Q.196) 
Suez Canal connects
(a) Red Sea and Arabian Sea
(b) Red Sea and Mediterranean Sea
(c) Arabian Sea and Mediterranean Sea
(d) North Sea and Baltic Sea
(e) None of the above

Q.197) 
Who has been named as the 2017 All India Football Federation(AIFF) men Player of the Year?
(a) Bhaichung Bhutia
(b) V. P. Sathyan
(c) Subrata Pal
(d) Sunil Chhetri
(e) Sandesh Jhingan

Q.198) 
Guru Shikhar, the highest peak in the Aravalli Range at 5650 feet(1722 meters) is located in which state?
(a) Haryana
(b) Rajasthan
(c) Gujarat
(d) Bihar
(e) Madhya Pradesh

Q.199) 
The book'Our Trees Still Grow In Dehra' is authored by___.
(a) Arvind Adiga
(b) Neel Mukherjee
(c) Ruskin Bond
(d) A P J Abdul Kalam
(e) Shashi Tharoor

Q.200) 
What is Repo Rate?
(a) It is a rate at which RBI sell Government securities to banks
(b) It is a rate at which RBI allows small loans in the market
(c) It is a rate at which RBI buys Government securities from banks
(d) It is a rate which is offered by banks to their most valued customers or prime customers
(e) None of these