Q.1) 
Who is the author of the book “My Country My Life”?  
(a) L K Advani  
(b) Mamata Banerjee  
(c) N Chandrababu Naidu  
(d) Rahul Gandhi  
(e) Prakash Javadekar  

Q.2) 
Who is the Google policy head of India?  
(a) Sukant Vatsa  
(b) Archana Gulati  
(c) Ritika Singh Verma  
(d) Ramesh Kumar  
(e) Chandra Sekhar  

Q.3) 
Singareni coalfields are located in which state?  
(a) Telangana  
(b) Maharashtra  
(c) Andhra Pradesh  
(d) Karnataka  
(e) Odisha  

Q.4) 
Delimitation has happened in which State/UT recently?  
(a) J&K  
(b) Assam  
(c) Meghalaya  
(d) Telangana  
(e) Lakshadweep  

Q.5) 
Which of the following state is the winner of Santosh Cup?  
(a) Uttar Pradesh  
(b) Arunachal Pradesh  
(c) Assam  
(d) Gujarat  
(e) Kerala  

Q.6) 
Who is the runner up of Pro-kabaddi league held recently?  
(a) Patna Pirates  
(b) Dabang Delhi  
(c) Tamil Thalaivas  
(d) Puneri Paltan  
(e) Telugu Titans  

Q.7) 
In which year was Federal Reserve established in USA?  
(a) 1913  
(b) 1998  
(c) 1987  
(d) 1967  
(e) 1955  

Q.8) 
What is the ratio of ownership in an RRB by centre, state and sponsor banks at present?  
(a) 50:15:35  
(b) 40:30:30  
(c) 60:20:20  
(d) 75:15:10  
(e) 35:15:50  

Q.9) 
Which of the following is the correct allocation of PM Kisan in the recent budget?  
(a) Rs 90,000 crore  
(b) Rs 18,000 crore  
(c) Rs 45,500 crore  
(d) Rs 68,000 crore  
(e) Rs 57,000 crore  

Q.10) 
Where is Louvre Museum Located?  
(a) Paris, France  
(b) Boston, USA  
(c) Berlin, Germany  
(d) Stockholm, Sweden  
(e) Amsterdam, Netherlands  

Q.11) 
According to NFHS-5, what is the male to female ratio in India?  
(a) 1020 women for 1000 men  
(b) 989 women for 1000 men  
(c) 1001 women for 1000 men  
(d) 997 women for 1000 men  
(e) 1050 women for 1000 men  

Q.12) 
According to the latest State of World’s Forest report, what is the percentage of world forest cover?  
(a) 27%  
(b) 19%  
(c) 31%  
(d) 50%  
(e) 42%  

Q.13) 
What is the venue of Climate Change Conference to be held in June 2022?  
(a) Bonn, Germany  
(b) New York, US  
(c) Seattle, US  
(d) Paris, France  
(e) Madrid, Spain  

Q.14) 
The 1st food-grain based ethanol factory is situated in which state?  
(a) Bihar  
(b) Madhya Pradesh  
(c) Uttar Pradesh  
(d) Rajasthan  
(e) Gujarat  

Q.15) 
Coal Miners' Day is observed on _____  
(a) April 8  
(b) May 4  
(c) June 12  
(d) July 17  
(e) August 19  

Q.16) 
T+1 was implemented by which country for the first time?  
(a) China  
(b) Singapore  
(c) Japan  
(d) USA  
(e) Germany  

Q.17) 
Which of the following statement(s) is/are correct with respect to the objectives of PM-SVANidhi scheme? 1) To facilitate working capital loan up to Rs 10,000 2) The loan will be provided for a period of 18 months 3) On early repayment, vendors eligible for next cycle with enhanced limit (Rs 15,000)  
(a) Only 1  
(b) Only 1 and 2  
(c) Only 2 and 3  
(d) Only 3  
(e) Only 1 and 3  

Q.18) 
In budget 2022, how much allocation has been made to the Jal Jeevan Mission?  
(a) Rs 20,000 crore  
(b) Rs 60,000 crore  
(c) Rs 1,00,000 crore  
(d) Rs 49,000 crore  
(e) Rs 70,000 crore  

Q.19) 
Repo Rate and CRR have been revised recently by RBI. On which date was the revision made and from which date has it been implemented?  
(a) 2nd June 2022 and 18th August 2022  
(b) 4th May 2022 and 21st May 2022  
(c) 18th July 2022 and 1st August 2022  
(d) 15th July 2022 and 31st August 2022  
(e) 10th June 2022 and 1st September 2022  

Q.20) 
The World State of the Forest Report is published by which organization?  
(a) FAO  
(b) IFAD  
(c) UNEP  
(d) IUCN  
(e) WMO  

Q.21) 
What is India’s rank in the global fish production?  
(a) 5th  
(b) 2nd  
(c) 8th  
(d) 9th  
(e) 10th  

Q.22) 
What is the relationship between bond yields/rates and prices?  
(a) Inverse relationship  
(b) Direct relationship  
(c) Not related  
(d) Proportional relationship  
(e) Indirect relationship  

Q.23) 
Which of the following statement(s) is/are incorrect about the ASEEM portal? I. MSDE launched ASEEM to help skilled people find sustainable livelihood opportunities II. ASEEM stands for Atmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping III. It improves information flow and bridges demand-supply gap  
(a) Only II and III  
(b) Only I and II  
(c) Only I, II, and III  
(d) None are incorrect  
(e) All are incorrect  

Q.24) 
In DACE portal, E stands for?  
(a) Excellence  
(b) Enterprise  
(c) Expertise  
(d) Environment  
(e) Expedition  

Q.25) 
When was the OECD established?  
(a) 1961  
(b) 1987  
(c) 1954  
(d) 1988  
(e) 1999  

Q.26) 
When was BIMSTEC established?  
(a) 1989  
(b) 1997  
(c) 1929  
(d) 1990  
(e) 1991  

Q.27) 
Which is the 1st Geological Park in India?  
(a) Lamheta  
(b) Kurnool  
(c) Anantapur  
(d) Barmer  
(e) Jaisalmer  

Q.28) 
The Monetary Policy Committee consists of _______ members?  
(a) Seven  
(b) Ten  
(c) Five  
(d) Six  
(e) Two  

Q.29) 
When was NCFE established?  
(a) 2013  
(b) 2018  
(c) 2019  
(d) 2017  
(e) 2012  

Q.30) 
ECLGS has been expanded by _____ to Rs 5 lakh crore?  
(a) Rs 50,000 crore  
(b) Rs 30,000 crore  
(c) Rs 25,000 crore  
(d) Rs 20,000 crore  
(e) Rs 15,000 crore  

Q.31) 
A non-profit organization can be set up under which section of the Companies Act?  
(a) Section 8  
(b) Section 4  
(c) Section 30  
(d) Section 28  
(e) Section 13  

Q.32) 
In India, highest employment is generated in which sector after agriculture?  
(a) Iron and Steel Industry  
(b) Textile  
(c) Automobile  
(d) Software and IT  
(e) Pharma  

Q.33) 
How does the MPC ensure transparency in inflation measurement?  
(a) MPC increases/decreases policy rates  
(b) MPC prepares the CPI index  
(c) MPC monitors residex for housing prices  
(d) Only A and B  
(e) Only B and C  

Q.34) EPF interest rate was cut to a decade low of ____ in 2021-22 fiscal?  
(a) 8.1%  
(b) 7.8%  
(c) 8.9%  
(d) 7.1%  
(e) 7.5%  

Q.35) If x is 18 years old and wants pension of Rs 5000 under Atal Pension Yojana, how much should he contribute regularly?  
(a) 300  
(b) 180  
(c) 150  
(d) 210  
(e) 250  

Q.36) 
What does ‘e’ stand for in DESH Stack e-portal?  
(a) Enterprise  
(b) Ecosystem  
(c) Effort  
(d) Encore  
(e) Establishment  

Q.37) 
Peacekeeping medals were given by the United States to which country?  
(a) South Sudan  
(b) India  
(c) Zambia  
(d) Gambia  
(e) Kenya  

Q.38) 
What is the urban and rural sex ratio in India respectively?  
(a) Rural-924; Urban-918  
(b) Rural-904; Urban-998  
(c) Rural-933; Urban-965  
(d) Rural-817; Urban-980  
(e) Rural-898; Urban-920  

Q.39) 
When is a bank customer eligible to be insured under DICGC?  
(a) Liquidation or cancellation of bank’s licence  
(b) Amalgamation and merger  
(c) Reconstruction or arrangement  
(d) Only A and B  
(e) Only A, B and C  

Q.40) 
NMP estimates aggregate monetisation potential of _____?  
(a) Rs 4 lakh crore  
(b) Rs 6 lakh crore  
(c) Rs 8 lakh crore  
(d) Rs 10 lakh crore  
(e) Rs 40 lakh crore  

Q.41) 
What is the minimum NOF requirement for a public company to be incorporated as a Nidhi company?  
(a) Rs 20 lakh  
(b) Rs 40 lakh  
(c) Rs 30 lakh  
(d) Rs 15 lakh  
(e) Rs 25 lakh  

Q.42) 
How many beneficiaries are covered in Jal Jeevan Mission?  
(a) 4.5 crore  
(b) 2.7 crore  
(c) 11.1 crore  
(d) 3.8 crore  
(e) 6.6 crore  

Q.43) 
In which month of 2022 did GST collection exceed Rs 1.5 lakh crore?  
(a) Rs 1.68 lakh crore in April 2022  
(b) Rs 2.0 lakh crore in March 2022  
(c) Rs 1.72 lakh crore in July 2022  
(d) Rs 1.8 lakh crore in August 2022  
(e) Rs 2.2 lakh crore in June 2022  

Q.44) 
After NEP, what is the allocation for education in Union Budget 2022?  
(a) Rs 1,54,000 crore  
(b) Rs 1,04,278 crore  
(c) Rs 2,90,800 crore  
(d) Rs 1,07,900 crore  
(e) Rs 3,40,500 crore  

Q.45) 
Azadi se Antyodaya Tak Inter-ministerial campaign has been announced for?  
(a) 50 days  
(b) 60 days  
(c) 80 days  
(d) 90 days  
(e) 75 days  

Q.46) 
Jharokha scheme has been launched in how many states?  
(a) 19  
(b) 13  
(c) 20  
(d) 6  
(e) 10  

Q.47) 
Sagarmala programme targets developing how many km of inland waterways?  
(a) 27,800 km  
(b) 18,900 km  
(c) 14,500 km  
(d) 25,600 km  
(e) 10,800 km  

Q.48) 
How much additional subsidy is allocated to the fertilizer sector?  
(a) 2.78 lakh crore  
(b) 2.55 lakh crore  
(c) 0.80 lakh crore  
(d) 1.10 lakh crore  
(e) 2.07 lakh crore  

Q.49) 
Name of new initiative by Indian Air Force and Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.?  
(a) Slice Supre Card  
(b) Fleet Card - Fuel on Move  
(c) OneCard Credit Card  
(d) Uni Card 1/3rd card  
(e) Gold credit card  

Q.50) 
UPI and PayNow integration: PayNow belongs to which country?  
(a) Singapore  
(b) Mauritius  
(c) USA  
(d) Germany  
(e) France  

Q.51) 
Bharat Bond ETF is managed by which company?  
(a) Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund  
(b) Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund  
(c) Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund  
(d) Edelweiss Mutual Fund  
(e) Axis Mutual Fund  

Q.52) 
Who is the next chairman of FATF and from which country?  
(a) Trygve Lie from Norway  
(b) Dag Hammarskjöld from Sweden  
(c) Kurt Waldheim from Austria  
(d) Javier Perez de Cuellar from Peru  
(e) T Raja Kumar from Singapore  

Q.53) 
Which country will provide €10 billion SD aid to India till 2030?  
(a) Netherlands  
(b) Germany  
(c) Denmark  
(d) France  
(e) United Kingdom  

Q.54) 
How many members are there in OECD?  
(a) 38  
(b) 43  
(c) 67  
(d) 80  
(e) 55  

Q.55) 
Which of the following are not MPC committee assumptions in April 2022?  
(a) Normal monsoon  
(b) Moderation on international commodity price pressures  
(c) Average crude oil price  
(d) Steady economic recovery  
(e) Tightened fiscal policy  

Q.56) 
Which of the following is not part of the Memorandum of a Company?  
(a) Board of Director Clause  
(b) Name Clause  
(c) Object Clause  
(d) Capital Clause  
(e) Liability Clause  

Q.57) 
How many institutions are members of the Financial Stability Board?  
(a) 71  
(b) 69  
(c) 80  
(d) 110  
(e) 45  

Q.58) 
Which sector/area is not covered under government capital expenditure?  
(a) Interest Payment  
(b) Loan Repayment  
(c) Grants to other countries  
(d) Remittances  
(e) Infrastructure development  

Q.59) 
SBI Card signed a deal with which technology company?  
(a) Tata Consultancy Services  
(b) IBM  
(c) Infosys  
(d) Wipro  
(e) Oracle  

Q.60) 
Which is India’s indigenous train accident system?  
(a) Kavach  
(b) Netra  
(c) Suraksha  
(d) Saksham  
(e) Nikshay  

Q.61) 
Which state's Khadi Gramodyog Samyukta Sangha produces the National Flag?  
(a) Uttarakhand  
(b) Kerala  
(c) Telangana  
(d) Karnataka  
(e) Gujarat  

Q.62) 
Project Venus of ISRO is to be launched in?  
(a) December 2024  
(b) June 2022  
(c) August 2023  
(d) September 2025  
(e) October 2027  

Q.63) 
Cyclone Asani is named by which country?  
(a) Sri Lanka  
(b) Thailand  
(c) UAE  
(d) Saudi Arabia  
(e) Indonesia  

Q.64) 
Covid Champion Award has been bagged by which airport?  
(a) Rajiv Gandhi International Airport  
(b) Cochin International Airport Limited  
(c) Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport  
(d) Indira Gandhi International Airport  
(e) Veer Savarkar International Airport  

Q.65) 
Khelo India University Championship 2021 was won by which university?  
(a) Jain University  
(b) Acharya Nagarjuna University  
(c) Andhra University  
(d) Vikrama Simhapuri University  
(e) Bodoland University  

Q.66) 
CIA appointed ______ as its first-ever Chief Technology Officer (CTO).  
(a) L. Murugan  
(b) Chandra Sekhar  
(c) Gopal Sadhwani  
(d) Nand Mulchandani  
(e) Pankaj Salodia  

Q.67) 
National Forensic Science University comes under which ministry?  
(a) Ministry of Agriculture and Family Welfare  
(b) Ministry of Home Affairs  
(c) Ministry of Science and Technology  
(d) Ministry of Corporate Affairs  
(e) Ministry of Finance  

Q.68) 
When is World Environment Day observed?  
(a) June 5  
(b) August 10  
(c) July 18  
(d) September 20  
(e) April 22  

Q.69) 
Asia’s largest civil aviation event jointly organized at Begumpet Airport, Hyderabad:  
(a) Asia Air  
(b) Fly India  
(c) Civil India  
(d) Wings India  
(e) Aviation India  

Q.70) 
How many Debt Recovery Tribunals are functioning in India?  
(a) 39  
(b) 43  
(c) 50  
(d) 80  
(e) 78  

Q.71) 
As per IRDAI, which is the second-largest general insurance company?  
(a) Star Health and Allied Insurance  
(b) ICICI Lombard  
(c) United India General Insurance  
(d) Universal Sompo General Insurance  
(e) Oriental General Insurance  

Q.72) 
As per NEP, public investment to be raised to ____% of GDP?  
(a) 8%  
(b) 5%  
(c) 4.5%  
(d) 6%  
(e) 5.7%  

Q.73) 
India’s monthly merchandise exports remained above US$ _____ billion in 2021-22?  
(a) $40 billion  
(b) $30 billion  
(c) $20 billion  
(d) $5 billion  
(e) $10 billion  

Q.74) 
When is ‘Food Processing Week 2.0’ celebrated?  
(a) April 25 to 30  
(b) May 16 to 22  
(c) April 1 to 7  
(d) May 1 to 7  
(e) May 17 to 22  

Q.75) 
Current market size of domestic pharmaceutical industry of India?  
(a) $100 billion  
(b) $50 billion  
(c) $30 billion  
(d) $65 billion  
(e) $71 billion  

Q.76) 
Who is the new chairperson of CBDT?  
(a) R. K. Dhawan  
(b) Rupinder Brar  
(c) Santosh Kumar  
(d) Sangeeta Singh  
(e) Jaspal Singh  

Q.77) 
Author of “Leaders Politicians Citizens: Fifty Figures Who Influenced India’s Politics”?  
(a) Rasheed Kidwai  
(b) Gyan Bhushan  
(c) Rajesh Kumar  
(d) Santosh Shilpokar  
(e) Shoeb Samad  

Q.78) 
With which country has India agreed to establish a lighthouse cooperation for Agroecology?  
(a) USA  
(b) Germany  
(c) France  
(d) Denmark  
(e) UK  

Q.79) 
Where is the ‘Miyan Ka Bada’ railway station located?  
(a) Jalore  
(b) Barmer  
(c) Jhalawar  
(d) Sirohi  
(e) Karauli  

Q.80) 
How much additional subsidy for phosphate-based fertilizers has been announced?  
(a) Rs 50,000 crore  
(b) Rs 78,000 crore  
(c) Rs 61,000 crore  
(d) Rs 25,000 crore  
(e) Rs 30,000 crore  

Q.81) 
On attending a conference, which focused on the role of the services sector in Indian economy I was amazed. The conference gave a very interesting perspective on the role of the service sector in the growth of Indian economy in relation to growth rates in agriculture and industry. The current situation in India is that the growth rate of services has overtaken both agriculture and industry and is now contributing to more than 50% of GDP. The service sector has the highest growth rate and is the least volatile sector. Growth is particularly marked in public services, IT and financial services. In some areas. the growth rate of the service sector is 40-50% due to increased use of mobile technologies. India, therefore, has a service-oriented economy. It does't not have traditional growth models as in China. However, in the process of doing so, it has skipped the manufacturing and has jumped straight from the agriculture stage to the service stage, which is also the main reason for the expansion of the service sector. In fact, the situation now is such that the growth in the service sector can and will support the agriculture and industrial sectors. However, the only setback for Indian economy is the lack of growth in the manufacturing sector which causes dependence on other countries, which is not so desirable in terms of job creation and increased prosperity. Population is also a major concern for the Indian economy as the population of India grows so also does the number of dependents in the population in both the lower and higher age groups. In such a scenario of increasing population, especially in an economy which is still recovering from crisis, growth becomes difficult. For such an economy to grow it has to invest. Currently, the public sector invests more than it saves. The household sector saves in surplus, but it is not increasing so it cannot continue to support private and public sectors. There is a massive need to spend on agriculture and infrastructure development of the country. Apart from that health and education should also be the priority of the government particularly the education of women to reduce the birth rate Choose the word which is most opposite in meaning to the word given in bold as used in the passage. 'Volatile'  
(a) Erratic  
(b) Impatient  
(c) Stable  
(d) Solid  
(e) Strained  

Q.82) 
On attending a conference, which focused on the role of the services sector in Indian economy I was amazed. The conference gave a very interesting perspective on the role of the service sector in the growth of Indian economy in relation to growth rates in agriculture and industry. The current situation in India is that the growth rate of services has overtaken both agriculture and industry and is now contributing to more than 50% of GDP. The service sector has the highest growth rate and is the least volatile sector. Growth is particularly marked in public services, IT and financial services. In some areas. the growth rate of the service sector is 40-50% due to increased use of mobile technologies. India, therefore, has a service-oriented economy. It does't not have traditional growth models as in China. However, in the process of doing so, it has skipped the manufacturing and has jumped straight from the agriculture stage to the service stage, which is also the main reason for the expansion of the service sector. In fact, the situation now is such that the growth in the service sector can and will support the agriculture and industrial sectors. However, the only setback for Indian economy is the lack of growth in the manufacturing sector which causes dependence on other countries, which is not so desirable in terms of job creation and increased prosperity. Population is also a major concern for the Indian economy as the population of India grows so also does the number of dependents in the population in both the lower and higher age groups. In such a scenario of increasing population, especially in an economy which is still recovering from crisis, growth becomes difficult. For such an economy to grow it has to invest. Currently, the public sector invests more than it saves. The household sector saves in surplus, but it is not increasing so it cannot continue to support private and public sectors. There is a massive need to spend on agriculture and infrastructure development of the country. Apart from that health and education should also be the priority of the government particularly the education of women to reduce the birth rate According to the passage, which of the following is/are true about the impact of increasing population on Indian economy? 1. If India attempts to absorb all the labour force, it will impact the growth of service sector negatively and in turn hamper the economic growth of the county. 2. As the population of the country increases, the number of dependants in the country also increases which in turn increases the pressure on the economy. 3. An increasing population can never lead the economy of the country towards prosperity; in fact, it can only put strain on the economy of a country.  
(a) Only 2  
(b) Only 3  
(c) 2 and 3  
(d) 1 and 3  
(e) All of these  

Q.83) 
On attending a conference, which focused on the role of the services sector in Indian economy I was amazed. The conference gave a very interesting perspective on the role of the service sector in the growth of Indian economy in relation to growth rates in agriculture and industry. The current situation in India is that the growth rate of services has overtaken both agriculture and industry and is now contributing to more than 50% of GDP. The service sector has the highest growth rate and is the least volatile sector. Growth is particularly marked in public services, IT and financial services. In some areas. the growth rate of the service sector is 40-50% due to increased use of mobile technologies. India, therefore, has a service-oriented economy. It does't not have traditional growth models as in China. However, in the process of doing so, it has skipped the manufacturing and has jumped straight from the agriculture stage to the service stage, which is also the main reason for the expansion of the service sector. In fact, the situation now is such that the growth in the service sector can and will support the agriculture and industrial sectors. However, the only setback for Indian economy is the lack of growth in the manufacturing sector which causes dependence on other countries, which is not so desirable in terms of job creation and increased prosperity. Population is also a major concern for the Indian economy as the population of India grows so also does the number of dependents in the population in both the lower and higher age groups. In such a scenario of increasing population, especially in an economy which is still recovering from crisis, growth becomes difficult. For such an economy to grow it has to invest. Currently, the public sector invests more than it saves. The household sector saves in surplus, but it is not increasing so it cannot continue to support private and public sectors. There is a massive need to spend on agriculture and infrastructure development of the country. Apart from that health and education should also be the priority of the government particularly the education of women to reduce the birth rate According to the passage, which of the following can be said about the agriculture and industry sectors in India? 1. Looking at the growth of the services sector in India it can be safely said that the service sector will soon be in a position to support both agriculture and industry sector. 2. The agriculture and the industrial sector of the country have reached their threshold and there would be no use of further investment in these sectors. 3. Currently, the agriculture and industry sectors contribute lesser as compared to the service sector to the GDP of the country.  
(a) Only 1  
(b) Only 3  
(c) 1 and 3  
(d) 2 and 3  
(e) All of these  

Q.84) 
On attending a conference, which focused on the role of the services sector in Indian economy I was amazed. The conference gave a very interesting perspective on the role of the service sector in the growth of Indian economy in relation to growth rates in agriculture and industry. The current situation in India is that the growth rate of services has overtaken both agriculture and industry and is now contributing to more than 50% of GDP. The service sector has the highest growth rate and is the least volatile sector. Growth is particularly marked in public services, IT and financial services. In some areas. the growth rate of the service sector is 40-50% due to increased use of mobile technologies. India, therefore, has a service-oriented economy. It does't not have traditional growth models as in China. However, in the process of doing so, it has skipped the manufacturing and has jumped straight from the agriculture stage to the service stage, which is also the main reason for the expansion of the service sector. In fact, the situation now is such that the growth in the service sector can and will support the agriculture and industrial sectors. However, the only setback for Indian economy is the lack of growth in the manufacturing sector which causes dependence on other countries, which is not so desirable in terms of job creation and increased prosperity. Population is also a major concern for the Indian economy as the population of India grows so also does the number of dependents in the population in both the lower and higher age groups. In such a scenario of increasing population, especially in an economy which is still recovering from crisis, growth becomes difficult. For such an economy to grow it has to invest. Currently, the public sector invests more than it saves. The household sector saves in surplus, but it is not increasing so it cannot continue to support private and public sectors. There is a massive need to spend on agriculture and infrastructure development of the country. Apart from that health and education should also be the priority of the government particularly the education of women to reduce the birth rate Choose the word which is most similar in meaning to the word given in bold as used in the passage. 'Perspective'  
(a) Viewpoint  
(b) Prospect  
(c) Attitude  
(d) Agreement  
(e) Proportion  

Q.85) 
On attending a conference, which focused on the role of the services sector in Indian economy I was amazed. The conference gave a very interesting perspective on the role of the service sector in the growth of Indian economy in relation to growth rates in agriculture and industry. The current situation in India is that the growth rate of services has overtaken both agriculture and industry and is now contributing to more than 50% of GDP. The service sector has the highest growth rate and is the least volatile sector. Growth is particularly marked in public services, IT and financial services. In some areas. the growth rate of the service sector is 40-50% due to increased use of mobile technologies. India, therefore, has a service-oriented economy. It does't not have traditional growth models as in China. However, in the process of doing so, it has skipped the manufacturing and has jumped straight from the agriculture stage to the service stage, which is also the main reason for the expansion of the service sector. In fact, the situation now is such that the growth in the service sector can and will support the agriculture and industrial sectors. However, the only setback for Indian economy is the lack of growth in the manufacturing sector which causes dependence on other countries, which is not so desirable in terms of job creation and increased prosperity. Population is also a major concern for the Indian economy as the population of India grows so also does the number of dependents in the population in both the lower and higher age groups. In such a scenario of increasing population, especially in an economy which is still recovering from crisis, growth becomes difficult. For such an economy to grow it has to invest. Currently, the public sector invests more than it saves. The household sector saves in surplus, but it is not increasing so it cannot continue to support private and public sectors. There is a massive need to spend on agriculture and infrastructure development of the country. Apart from that health and education should also be the priority of the government particularly the education of women to reduce the birth rate Which of the following is true as per the passage?  
(a) India has not followed the conventional model of growth and has moved directly from the agriculture sector to the service sector.  
(b) The service sector of the country is yet to make a mark on the IT and financial sectors of the country  
(c) With availability of labour and growth in human skills, the service sector of Indian economy is booming limitlessly as there is no restriction on movement of labour  
(d) India has become self-reliant and does not have to depend on other countries because of the development in the manufacturing sector.  
(e) All of the above  

Q.86) 
The latest surgical tools are certainly fashionable, especially lasers and laparoscopes. But their role in transforming surgery is___(86), as is the excitement they generate. Dr. Sanjay Chaddha from Delhi specialises in remodelling the ____(87) with what is called an excimer laser. “It’s like etching on gold to design jewellery”, he says. “The laser manages to either flatten or raise the cornea, solving the problem of myopia”. Now watch Dr. Harshad P, in his clinic as he gazes not at this____(88) but at a television screen, which his patient too is____(89) from the operating table. Controlled from the outside, Dr. Harshad’s laser is waltzing through his patient’s prostrate; it’s called a laser prostatectomy. A miniature camera and a beam of light from a fibre-optic wire, both at the end of a laparoscope, allow him to see____(90) than with the naked eyes. Choose the correct option:  
(a) questionable  
(b) discretionary  
(c) unpardonable  
(d) unquestionable  
(e) indisputable  

Q.87) 
The latest surgical tools are certainly fashionable, especially lasers and laparoscopes. But their role in transforming surgery is___(86), as is the excitement they generate. Dr. Sanjay Chaddha from Delhi specialises in remodelling the ____(87) with what is called an excimer laser. “It’s like etching on gold to design jewellery”, he says. “The laser manages to either flatten or raise the cornea, solving the problem of myopia”. Now watch Dr. Harshad P, in his clinic as he gazes not at this____(88) but at a television screen, which his patient too is____(89) from the operating table. Controlled from the outside, Dr. Harshad’s laser is waltzing through his patient’s prostrate; it’s called a laser prostatectomy. A miniature camera and a beam of light from a fibre-optic wire, both at the end of a laparoscope, allow him to see____(90) than with the naked eyes. choose the correct option:  
(a) body  
(b) clinic  
(c) world  
(d) eye  
(e) physique  

Q.88) 
The latest surgical tools are certainly fashionable, especially lasers and laparoscopes. But their role in transforming surgery is___(86), as is the excitement they generate. Dr. Sanjay Chaddha from Delhi specialises in remodelling the ____(87) with what is called an excimer laser. “It’s like etching on gold to design jewellery”, he says. “The laser manages to either flatten or raise the cornea, solving the problem of myopia”. Now watch Dr. Harshad P, in his clinic as he gazes not at this____(88) but at a television screen, which his patient too is____(89) from the operating table. Controlled from the outside, Dr. Harshad’s laser is waltzing through his patient’s prostrate; it’s called a laser prostatectomy. A miniature camera and a beam of light from a fibre-optic wire, both at the end of a laparoscope, allow him to see____(90) than with the naked eyes. Choose the correct option:  
(a) family  
(b) future  
(c) patient  
(d) awards  
(e) reward  

Q.89) 
The latest surgical tools are certainly fashionable, especially lasers and laparoscopes. But their role in transforming surgery is___(86), as is the excitement they generate. Dr. Sanjay Chaddha from Delhi specialises in remodelling the ____(87) with what is called an excimer laser. “It’s like etching on gold to design jewellery”, he says. “The laser manages to either flatten or raise the cornea, solving the problem of myopia”. Now watch Dr. Harshad P, in his clinic as he gazes not at this____(88) but at a television screen, which his patient too is____(89) from the operating table. Controlled from the outside, Dr. Harshad’s laser is waltzing through his patient’s prostrate; it’s called a laser prostatectomy. A miniature camera and a beam of light from a fibre-optic wire, both at the end of a laparoscope, allow him to see____(90) than with the naked eyes. Choose the correct option:  
(a) operating  
(b) diagnosing  
(c) watching  
(d) criticising  
(e) monitoring  

Q.90) 
The latest surgical tools are certainly fashionable, especially lasers and laparoscopes. But their role in transforming surgery is___(86), as is the excitement they generate. Dr. Sanjay Chaddha from Delhi specialises in remodelling the ____(87) with what is called an excimer laser. “It’s like etching on gold to design jewellery”, he says. “The laser manages to either flatten or raise the cornea, solving the problem of myopia”. Now watch Dr. Harshad P, in his clinic as he gazes not at this____(88) but at a television screen, which his patient too is____(89) from the operating table. Controlled from the outside, Dr. Harshad’s laser is waltzing through his patient’s prostrate; it’s called a laser prostatectomy. A miniature camera and a beam of light from a fibre-optic wire, both at the end of a laparoscope, allow him to see____(90) than with the naked eyes. Choose the correct option:  
(a) tens of times better  
(b) not much better  
(c) restricted vision  
(d) more colourfully  
(e) much colored  

Q.91) 
A sentence has divided into five parts, of which one part contains an error. Identify the part and mark the corresponding number as your answer. Ignore the error of punctuation, if an As sugar prices have(1)/ collapsed on, supply surges for four years in(2)/ a row, user industries(3)/ are being repeated a bonanza.(4)/ No error(5).  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) 4  
(e) 5  

Q.92) 
A sentence has divided into five parts, of which one part contains an error. Identify the part and mark the corresponding number as your answer. Ignore the error of punctuation, if an Coffee production in India(1)/ is expected to touch a new peak this year,(2)/ as the crop prospects ae encouraging(3)/ due to adequate rains.(4)/ No error(5).  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) 4  
(e) 5  

Q.93) 
A sentence has divided into five parts, of which one part contains an error. Identify the part and mark the corresponding number as your answer. Ignore the error of punctuation, if an Country launched a naval operation(1)/ to stop human traffickers(2)/ by bringing migrants(3)/ across the border.(4) No error.(5)  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) 4  
(e) 5  

Q.94) 
A sentence has divided into five parts, of which one part contains an error. Identify the part and mark the corresponding number as your answer. Ignore the error of punctuation, if an In the swimming pool area(1)/ the guards were busy(2)/ to stopping children(3)/ from falling into the leg pool.(4) No error(5).  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) 4  
(e) 5  

Q.95) 
A sentence has divided into five parts, of which one part contains an error. Identify the part and mark the corresponding number as your answer. Ignore the error of punctuation, if an If cooking is an expression of love and you want(1)/ your loved ones to know how much you love them(2)/ it will be a pity if you could(3)/ did no much than order pizza.(4) No error(5).  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) 4  
(e) 5  

Q.96) 
Researchers_____ that eating less meat would help in_____ water resources in dry areas around the world.  
(a) opine; conserve  
(b) said; procuring  
(c) suggest; removing  
(d) prove; store  
(e) believe; preserving  

Q.97) 
Harish____ with me some basic techniques that one can _____ at home without even owning a drum set.  
(a) made; shred  
(b) imparted; try  
(c) learned; balance  
(d) fits; rehearses  
(e) shared; practice  

Q.98) 
Forest department officials said that when the elephants were made to_____ from their trucks, they went straight to the spot where they had been_____ during the camp.  
(a) jump; killed  
(b) alight; tied  
(c) enter; hurt  
(d) step; played  
(e) exit; enjoyed  

Q.99) 
A collision between two houses______ 6 people dead, _______ the driver of one of the buses.  
(a) made; also  
(b) left; including  
(c) caused; combined  
(d) resulted; except  
(e) got; surpassing  

Q.100) 
The protests were______ at______ awareness among the elite and the educated.  
(a) held; generating  
(b) aimed; creating  
(c) targeted; awakening  
(d) focused; building  
(e) concentrated; producing  

Q.101) 
In each of the following questions, a sentence split into four parts labelled 1, 2, 3, 4 is given. Rearrange the parts to form the original sentence and select the correct order from among the five choices given below and mark its number as your answer: 1) acquires the nature of a corrective mechanism 2) of different hues and degrees 3) for a nation whose secular credentials are being nibbled at by various reactionary forces 4) any reminder of the ideology professed by its first Prime Minister  
(a) 4321  
(b) 3241  
(c) 1243  
(d) 3124  
(e) 1432  

Q.102) 
In each of the following questions, a sentence split into four parts labelled 1, 2, 3, 4 is given. Rearrange the parts to form the original sentence and select the correct order from among the five choices given below and mark its number as your answer: 1) depends not on merit and ability but on quotas based on caste 2) or have a good work ethic as one of its core values 3) community and gender or any other criterion, can hardly be stable 4) a society where access to education and jobs  
(a) 3241  
(b) 4231  
(c) 3214  
(d) 4123  
(e) 4132  

Q.103) 
In each of the following questions, a sentence split into four parts labelled 1, 2, 3, 4 is given. Rearrange the parts to form the original sentence and select the correct order from among the five choices given below and mark its number as your answer: 1) to locate the right man for the right job 2) with the dotcom frenzy refusing to suicide despite forecasts of a burnout 3) the high exit volume and the paucity of time and avenues 4) placement-fairs have moved in to rectify what software companies have been struggling with for some time  
(a) 4123  
(b) 3124  
(c) 2431  
(d) 2341  
(e) 3214  

Q.104) 
In each of the following questions, a sentence split into four parts labelled 1, 2, 3, 4 is given. Rearrange the parts to form the original sentence and select the correct order from among the five choices given below and mark its number as your answer: 1) the left democratic front government in Kerala 2) a section of the police force and some political parties in the ruling alliance 3) has shelved its plans to start the much-publicized people’s policing scheme 4) faced with stiff opposition from the public  
(a) 1342  
(b) 2134  
(c) 2341  
(d) 4213  
(e) 1423  

Q.105) 
In each of the following questions, a sentence split into four parts labelled 1, 2, 3, 4 is given. Rearrange the parts to form the original sentence and select the correct order from among the five choices given below and mark its number as your answer: 1) Psychiatrists, child workers and educationists are emphasizing the importance of bed time stories 2) the practice of children watching television or playing computer games before going to bed 3) and they are questioning 4) since the kids are bidding adieu to fairy tales or the simple habit of reading at bed time for a variety of reasons  
(a) 2413  
(b) 4231  
(c) 2314  
(d) 1234  
(e) 1324  

Q.106) 
In a reversal of the norm elsewhere, in India policy-makers and economists have become optimists while bosses do the worrying. The country’s Central Bank has predicted that the country’s economy is likely to grow at a double-digit rate during the next 20-30 years. India has the capability with its vast labour and lauded entrepreneurial spirit. But the private sector which is supposed to do the heavy lifting that turns India from the world’s 10th largest economy to the third largest by 2030 has become fed up. Business people often carp about India’s problems, but their irritation this time has a nervous edge. In the first quarter of 2011, GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.8%; in 2005-07, it managed 9-10%. The economy may be slowing naturally as the low interest rates and public spending that got India through the global crisis are belatedly withdrawn. At the same time, the surge in inflation caused by exorbitant food prices has spread more widely, casting doubt over whether India can grow at 8-10% in the medium term without overheating. In India, as in many fast-growing nations, the confidence to invest depends on the conviction that the long-term trajectory is intact, and it is that which is in doubt. Big Indian firms too sometimes seem happier to invest abroad than at home, in deals that are often hailed as symbols of the country’s growing clout, but sometimes speak of its weaknesses ‒ purchases of natural resources that India has in abundance, but struggles to get out of the ground. In fact, a further dip in investment could be self-fulfilling if fewer roads, ports and factories are built, this will hurt both short-term growth figures and reduce the economy’s long- term capacity. There is a view that because a fair amount of growth is assured, the government need not try very hard. The liberalisation reforms that began in 1991 freed markets for products and gave rise to vibrant competition. At the same time, what economists call factor markets, those for basic inputs like land, power, labour etc. remain unreformed and largely under state control, etc. which creates difficulties. Clearances today can take three to four years and many employers are keen to replace workers with machines despite an abundance of labour force. This can be attributed to labour laws which are inimical to employee creation and to the education system, that means finding quality manpower is a major problem. In fact, the Planning Commission concluded that even achieving 9% growth will need marked policy action in unreformed sectors. 20 years ago, it was said that the yardstick against which India should be measured was its potential and it is clear that there remains much to do. Which of the following can be said about the Indian economy at present?  
(a) It can comfortably achieve double digit growth rate at present.  
(b) High food prices have led to overheating of the economy.  
(c) Citizens are affluent owing to laxity in regulation.  
(d) Private sector confidence in India’s growth potential is high.  
(e) Unreformed sectors are a drag on economic growth.  

Q.107) 
In a reversal of the norm elsewhere, in India policy-makers and economists have become optimists while bosses do the worrying. The country’s Central Bank has predicted that the country’s economy is likely to grow at a double-digit rate during the next 20-30 years. India has the capability with its vast labour and lauded entrepreneurial spirit. But the private sector which is supposed to do the heavy lifting that turns India from the world’s 10th largest economy to the third largest by 2030 has become fed up. Business people often carp about India’s problems, but their irritation this time has a nervous edge. In the first quarter of 2011, GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.8%; in 2005-07, it managed 9-10%. The economy may be slowing naturally as the low interest rates and public spending that got India through the global crisis are belatedly withdrawn. At the same time, the surge in inflation caused by exorbitant food prices has spread more widely, casting doubt over whether India can grow at 8-10% in the medium term without overheating. In India, as in many fast-growing nations, the confidence to invest depends on the conviction that the long-term trajectory is intact, and it is that which is in doubt. Big Indian firms too sometimes seem happier to invest abroad than at home, in deals that are often hailed as symbols of the country’s growing clout, but sometimes speak of its weaknesses ‒ purchases of natural resources that India has in abundance, but struggles to get out of the ground. In fact, a further dip in investment could be self-fulfilling if fewer roads, ports and factories are built, this will hurt both short-term growth figures and reduce the economy’s long- term capacity. There is a view that because a fair amount of growth is assured, the government need not try very hard. The liberalisation reforms that began in 1991 freed markets for products and gave rise to vibrant competition. At the same time, what economists call factor markets, those for basic inputs like land, power, labour etc. remain unreformed and largely under state control, etc. which creates difficulties. Clearances today can take three to four years and many employers are keen to replace workers with machines despite an abundance of labour force. This can be attributed to labour laws which are inimical to employee creation and to the education system, that means finding quality manpower is a major problem. In fact, the Planning Commission concluded that even achieving 9% growth will need marked policy action in unreformed sectors. 20 years ago, it was said that the yardstick against which India should be measured was its potential and it is clear that there remains much to do. Why are employers reluctant to hire Indian labour force? 1) India’s labour force is overqualified for the employment opportunities available. 2) High attrition rate among employees is stemming from their entrepreneurial spirit. 3) Labour laws are not conducive to generating employment.  
(a) Only 3  
(b) 1 and 2  
(c) 1 and 3  
(d) All of these  
(e) None of these  

Q.108) 
In a reversal of the norm elsewhere, in India policy-makers and economists have become optimists while bosses do the worrying. The country’s Central Bank has predicted that the country’s economy is likely to grow at a double-digit rate during the next 20-30 years. India has the capability with its vast labour and lauded entrepreneurial spirit. But the private sector which is supposed to do the heavy lifting that turns India from the world’s 10th largest economy to the third largest by 2030 has become fed up. Business people often carp about India’s problems, but their irritation this time has a nervous edge. In the first quarter of 2011, GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.8%; in 2005-07, it managed 9-10%. The economy may be slowing naturally as the low interest rates and public spending that got India through the global crisis are belatedly withdrawn. At the same time, the surge in inflation caused by exorbitant food prices has spread more widely, casting doubt over whether India can grow at 8-10% in the medium term without overheating. In India, as in many fast-growing nations, the confidence to invest depends on the conviction that the long-term trajectory is intact, and it is that which is in doubt. Big Indian firms too sometimes seem happier to invest abroad than at home, in deals that are often hailed as symbols of the country’s growing clout, but sometimes speak of its weaknesses ‒ purchases of natural resources that India has in abundance, but struggles to get out of the ground. In fact, a further dip in investment could be self-fulfilling if fewer roads, ports and factories are built, this will hurt both short-term growth figures and reduce the economy’s long- term capacity. There is a view that because a fair amount of growth is assured, the government need not try very hard. The liberalisation reforms that began in 1991 freed markets for products and gave rise to vibrant competition. At the same time, what economists call factor markets, those for basic inputs like land, power, labour etc. remain unreformed and largely under state control, etc. which creates difficulties. Clearances today can take three to four years and many employers are keen to replace workers with machines despite an abundance of labour force. This can be attributed to labour laws which are inimical to employee creation and to the education system, that means finding quality manpower is a major problem. In fact, the Planning Commission concluded that even achieving 9% growth will need marked policy action in unreformed sectors. 20 years ago, it was said that the yardstick against which India should be measured was its potential and it is clear that there remains much to do. What is the state of India’s basic input sectors at present?  
(a) These sectors attract Foreign Direct Investment because of their vast potential.  
(b) These sectors are lagging as projects are usually awarded to foreign companies.  
(c) These sectors are stagnating and badly in need of reforms.  
(d) These sectors are well regulated as these are governed by state.  
(e) None of the above  

Q.109) 
In a reversal of the norm elsewhere, in India policy-makers and economists have become optimists while bosses do the worrying. The country’s Central Bank has predicted that the country’s economy is likely to grow at a double-digit rate during the next 20-30 years. India has the capability with its vast labour and lauded entrepreneurial spirit. But the private sector which is supposed to do the heavy lifting that turns India from the world’s 10th largest economy to the third largest by 2030 has become fed up. Business people often carp about India’s problems, but their irritation this time has a nervous edge. In the first quarter of 2011, GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.8%; in 2005-07, it managed 9-10%. The economy may be slowing naturally as the low interest rates and public spending that got India through the global crisis are belatedly withdrawn. At the same time, the surge in inflation caused by exorbitant food prices has spread more widely, casting doubt over whether India can grow at 8-10% in the medium term without overheating. In India, as in many fast-growing nations, the confidence to invest depends on the conviction that the long-term trajectory is intact, and it is that which is in doubt. Big Indian firms too sometimes seem happier to invest abroad than at home, in deals that are often hailed as symbols of the country’s growing clout, but sometimes speak of its weaknesses ‒ purchases of natural resources that India has in abundance, but struggles to get out of the ground. In fact, a further dip in investment could be self-fulfilling if fewer roads, ports and factories are built, this will hurt both short-term growth figures and reduce the economy’s long- term capacity. There is a view that because a fair amount of growth is assured, the government need not try very hard. The liberalisation reforms that began in 1991 freed markets for products and gave rise to vibrant competition. At the same time, what economists call factor markets, those for basic inputs like land, power, labour etc. remain unreformed and largely under state control, etc. which creates difficulties. Clearances today can take three to four years and many employers are keen to replace workers with machines despite an abundance of labour force. This can be attributed to labour laws which are inimical to employee creation and to the education system, that means finding quality manpower is a major problem. In fact, the Planning Commission concluded that even achieving 9% growth will need marked policy action in unreformed sectors. 20 years ago, it was said that the yardstick against which India should be measured was its potential and it is clear that there remains much to do. What is the author’s main objective in writing the passage?  
(a) Showcasing India’s growth potential to entice foreign investors.  
(b) Exhorting India to implement measures to live up to its potential.  
(c) Recommending India’s model of development to other developing countries.  
(d) Berating the private sector for not bidding for infrastructure development projects.  
(e) Criticising the measures taken by India during the economic crisis.  

Q.110) 
In a reversal of the norm elsewhere, in India policy-makers and economists have become optimists while bosses do the worrying. The country’s Central Bank has predicted that the country’s economy is likely to grow at a double-digit rate during the next 20-30 years. India has the capability with its vast labour and lauded entrepreneurial spirit. But the private sector which is supposed to do the heavy lifting that turns India from the world’s 10th largest economy to the third largest by 2030 has become fed up. Business people often carp about India’s problems, but their irritation this time has a nervous edge. In the first quarter of 2011, GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.8%; in 2005-07, it managed 9-10%. The economy may be slowing naturally as the low interest rates and public spending that got India through the global crisis are belatedly withdrawn. At the same time, the surge in inflation caused by exorbitant food prices has spread more widely, casting doubt over whether India can grow at 8-10% in the medium term without overheating. In India, as in many fast-growing nations, the confidence to invest depends on the conviction that the long-term trajectory is intact, and it is that which is in doubt. Big Indian firms too sometimes seem happier to invest abroad than at home, in deals that are often hailed as symbols of the country’s growing clout, but sometimes speak of its weaknesses ‒ purchases of natural resources that India has in abundance, but struggles to get out of the ground. In fact, a further dip in investment could be self-fulfilling if fewer roads, ports and factories are built, this will hurt both short-term growth figures and reduce the economy’s long- term capacity. There is a view that because a fair amount of growth is assured, the government need not try very hard. The liberalisation reforms that began in 1991 freed markets for products and gave rise to vibrant competition. At the same time, what economists call factor markets, those for basic inputs like land, power, labour etc. remain unreformed and largely under state control, etc. which creates difficulties. Clearances today can take three to four years and many employers are keen to replace workers with machines despite an abundance of labour force. This can be attributed to labour laws which are inimical to employee creation and to the education system, that means finding quality manpower is a major problem. In fact, the Planning Commission concluded that even achieving 9% growth will need marked policy action in unreformed sectors. 20 years ago, it was said that the yardstick against which India should be measured was its potential and it is clear that there remains much to do. What impact has the GDP growth of 7.8% had? 1) Indian Industry is anxious about India’s economic growth. 2) India has achieved status as the world’s third economy at present. 3) Foreign investment in India has drastically increased 
(a) Only 1  
(b) 1 and 2  
(c) 1 and 3  
(d) All of these  
(e) None of these


Q.111) 
Marked price is 1.45 times of cost price. Selling price is Rs 1500. The profit is 25%. Find the discount percentage.  
(a) 14%  
(b) 15%  
(c) 16%  
(d) 12%  
(e) 13%

Q.112) 
Identify the worng term (X) and answer the questions that follow: 2,3,7,22,89,445,2677,18740 Find the LCM of(X – 400) and 25.  
(a) 125  
(b) 250  
(c) 225  
(d) 275  
(e) 450

Q.113) 
Identify the worng term (X) and answer the questions that follow: 2,3,7,22,89,445,2677,18740 20% of X is same as which number from left?  
(a) First  
(b) Second  
(c) Third  
(d) Fourth  
(e) Fifth

Q.114) 
Identify the worng term (X) and answer the questions that follow: 2,3,7,22,89,445,2677,18740 Which of the following is a prime number?  
(a) X+ 2  
(b) X+ 4  
(c) X+ 5  
(d) X+ 3  
(e) X+ 6

Q.115) 
In Jar A, there is 40 litres milk and 6 litres water. In Jar B, there is 78 litres mixture of milk and water and the ratio is 10:3. A and B jars are emptied in a Jar C. In Jar C, there is already 6 litres water. What is the percentage of water in Jar C?  
(a) 77%  
(b) 25%  
(c) 23%  
(d) 75%  
(e) 21%

Q.116) 
What is the speed of train A? Statement A: The length of train A is 180m and the length of train B is 220m. Statement B: If train A crossed train B in 25 sec, both trains are running in the opposite direction.  
(a) If question can be answered using A alone but not using B alone  
(b) If question can be answered using B alone but not using A alone  
(c) If question can be answered using either of the statements alone  
(d) If question can be answered using both statements together but not using either A or B alone  
(e) If question can’t be answered even using A and B together

Q.117) 
If R is a composite value such that 14< R< 18, what can be the possible values of(P+ R)? 1) 18 2) 19 3) 20  
(a) 1 and 2  
(b) 2 and 3  
(c) 1 and 3  
(d) 1, 2 and 3  
(e) Only 1

Q.118) 
ax2 – 9x + 7 = 0 by2 – 8y + 4 = 0 • a and b are positive integers • b > a • 6/b is the bigger root of second equation • The ratio of highest roots of equation 1 to 2 is 7:4. Find the value of(Q – 2)/ P x 3  
(a) 180  
(b) 186  
(c) 198  
(d) 201  
(e) 192

Q.119) 
ax2 – 9x + 7 = 0 by2 – 8y + 4 = 0 • a and b are positive integers • b > a • 6/b is the bigger root of second equation • The ratio of highest roots of equation 1 to 2 is 7:4. What are the values of a and b respectively?  
(a) 1, 2  
(b) 2, 3  
(c) 1, 3  
(d) 3, 1  
(e) 3, 2

Q.120) 
ax2 – 9x + 7 = 0 by2 – 8y + 4 = 0 • a and b are positive integers • b > a • 6/b is the bigger root of second equation • The ratio of highest roots of equation 1 to 2 is 7:4. Find the roots of the first equation.  
(a) 2; 2/3  
(b) 1; 2  
(c) 1; 7/2  
(d) 2; 3  
(e) 1; 5/4

Q.121) 
ax2 – 9x + 7 = 0 by2 – 8y + 4 = 0 • a and b are positive integers • b > a • 6/b is the bigger root of second equation • The ratio of highest roots of equation 1 to 2 is 7:4. Find the roots of the second equation.  
(a) 2; 3  
(b) 1; 2  
(c) 2/3; 2  
(d) 4/3; 1  
(e) 5/2; 3

Q.122) 
What is Amit’s present age? 1) Five years ago, Amit’s age was double that of his daughter’s age at that time. 2) Present ages of Amit and his daughter are in the ratio of 11:6 respectively. 3) Five years hence, the respective ratio of Amit’s age and his daughter’s age will become 12:7.  
(a) Only 1 and 3 are sufficient to answer the question  
(b) Only 1 and 2 are sufficient to answer the question  
(c) Only 2 and 3 are sufficient to answer the question  
(d) Any two of the three statements are sufficient to answer the question  
(e) All 1, 2 and 3 are required to answer the question

Q.123) 
A invested 2000 more than B. A left the business after 8 months. If annual profit is 6800 and share of A is 400F, then find the investment of B. Note: 7F2= 472- √576  
(a) 2400  
(b) 4000  
(c) 6000  
(d) 7200  
(e) 8000

Q.124) 
Rohan mixed two varieties of clay for selling the mixture in his shop. What is the quantity of clay of the first variety in the mixture? A) The price of the first variety of clay is Rs 36 per kg. Rohan earned a profit of 20% by selling the mixture at Rs 57.60 per kg. The price of second variety of clay is Rs 50 per kg. B) The difference between the quantity of first variety and the second variety of clay in the mixture is 3 kg.  
(a) If question can be answered using A alone but not using B alone  
(b) If question can be answered using B alone but not using A alone  
(c) If question can be answered using either of the statements alone  
(d) If question can be answered using both statements together but not using either A or B alone  
(e) If question can’t be answered even using A and B together

Q.125) 
What is the rate of the compound interest? A) A sum of 1000, amounts to 1331 at the rate of compound interest. B) The amount was invested for the period of three years. C) The simple interest received on that amount in one year is equal to the compound interest received on that amount in the first year.  
(a) The data in statements A and C together are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in statement B are not sufficient to answer the question.  
(b) The data in statements A and B together are sufficient to answer the question, while the data in statement C are not sufficient to answer the question.  
(c) The data in statement A, B and C together are not sufficient to answer the question.  
(d) The data in statement only A and B together or only statement C are sufficient.  
(e) The data in all the statements A, B and C together are necessary to answer the question.

Q.126) 
A boat with a speed of 21 km/hr in still water, travels from point A to B in the downstream direction and returns to point A. Another boat with speed of 28 km/hr travels from B to A and returns to point B. The difference between the time taken by them to cover the distance is 6.5 hrs. What is the distance between points A and B, if the speed of stream is 7 km/hr?  
(a) 420 km  
(b) 120 km  
(c) 280 km  
(d) 350 km  
(e) 210 km

Q.127) 
A person can purchase three articles in Rs. 49. What is the price of costliest article? A) The cost price of two articles each is Rs. 1 less than the cost price of costliest article. B) The cost price of two articles is same. C) The cost price of costliest article is 6.25% more than the cost price of cheapest article. (a) Either statement A alone or statements B and C together are sufficient.  
(b) Only statement C is sufficient.  
(c) Only statement A and B together are sufficient.  
(d) Only statement A and C together are sufficient.  
(e) None of these

Q.128) 
ABC bank offers 12% interest per annum compounded half yearly on deposits. DEF Bank and GHI Bank offer simple interest but the annual interest rate offered by GHI Bank is twice that of DEF Bank. Sameer invests a certain amount in DEF Bank for a certain period and Seema invests Rs 20,000 in GHI Bank for twice that period. The interest that would accrue to Sameer during that period is equal to the interest that would have accrued had he invested the same amount in ABC Bank for one year. The interest accrued to Seema is  
(a) Rs 9992  
(b) Rs 9888  
(c) Rs 9910  
(d) Rs 9844  
(e) None of the above

Q.129) 
A double-decker bus travelled at 2/3rd of its normal speed and therefore reached the destination 45 minutes after the scheduled time. On its return journey, the bus initially travelled at its normal speed for 10 minutes but then stopped for 5 minutes for an emergency. The percentage by which the bus must now increase its normal speed in order to reach the destination at the scheduled time, is nearest to  
(a) 9%  
(b) 6.67%  
(c) 10%  
(d) 13.33%  
(e) 5%

Q.130) 
In pie chart-2, there is some discrepancy in one of the commodities in terms of number of units sold and unsold. Identify that commodity.  
(a) A  
(b) B  
(c) C  
(d) D  
(e) E

Q.131) 
The average number of units unsold of commodities B, D and F together are what% of total manufactured units of commodity B?  
(a) 110.33%  
(b) 108.66%  
(c) 110.66%  
(d) 108.33%  
(e) None of the above

Q.132) 
Half of units sold of commodity A, one-fourth units sold of commodity C and one-fifth units sold of commodity D were sold to a particular customer. If the number of units sold to this particular customer are represented on a pie chart, then what corresponding angle the number of units sold of C will make?(approximately)  
(a) 40°  
(b) 42°  
(c) 44°  
(d) 46°  
(e) 48°

Q.133) 
It is known that 15%, 10% and 5% of units unsold of commodities A, C, and F respectively are defective, while 10% and 20% of B and D respectively are defective. In B and D, how many more/less units are defective with respect to A, C, and F?  
(a) 5%  
(b) 5.25%  
(c) 6%  
(d) 6.25%  
(e) 7%

Q.134) 
Individuals Basic salary (Rs) Total allowance (Rs) Total deduction (Rs) Net salary (Rs) P 21800 28600 - - Q- - 4350 25850 R 10400 12400 2800 20000 S 11200 13800 - - T - 21600 5700 - Note: Total Deduction = Provident Fund Deduction (which is 10% of the basic salary) + Other deduction Net salary = Basic salary + Total Allowance – Total Deduction Few values are missing in the table. A candidate is expected to calculate the missing value, if it is required to answer the given question, on the basis of the given data and information. If Q’s total allowance was Rs.3,000 more than his basic salary, what was his total allowance?  
(a) Rs. 18,000  
(b) Rs. 16,600  
(c) Rs. 15,500  
(d) Rs. 19,000  
(e) Rs. 22,000

Q.135) 
Individuals Basic salary (Rs) Total allowance (Rs) Total deduction (Rs) Net salary (Rs) P 21800 28600 - - Q- - 4350 25850 R 10400 12400 2800 20000 S 11200 13800 - - T - 21600 5700 - Note: Total Deduction = Provident Fund Deduction (which is 10% of the basic salary) + Other deduction Net salary = Basic salary + Total Allowance – Total Deduction Few values are missing in the table. A candidate is expected to calculate the missing value, if it is required to answer the given question, on the basis of the given data and information. If the respective ratio of Provident Fund Deduction and other deduction of S was 7:13, what was S’s other deduction?  
(a) Rs. 3100  
(b) Rs. 2080  
(c) Rs. 3500  
(d) Rs. 2150  
(e) Rs. 3245

Q.136) 
Individuals Basic salary (Rs) Total allowance (Rs) Total deduction (Rs) Net salary (Rs) P 21800 28600 - - Q- - 4350 25850 R 10400 12400 2800 20000 S 11200 13800 - - T - 21600 5700 - Note: Total Deduction = Provident Fund Deduction (which is 10% of the basic salary) + Other deduction Net salary = Basic salary + Total Allowance – Total Deduction Few values are missing in the table. A candidate is expected to calculate the missing value, if it is required to answer the given question, on the basis of the given data and information. If other deduction of P was Rs. 4,720, what was his net salary?  
(a) Rs. 35500  
(b) Rs. 42510  
(c) Rs. 51000  
(d) Rs. 40000  
(e) Rs. 43500

Q.137) 
Individuals Basic salary (Rs) Total allowance (Rs) Total deduction (Rs) Net salary (Rs) P 21800 28600 - - Q- - 4350 25850 R 10400 12400 2800 20000 S 11200 13800 - - T - 21600 5700 - Note: Total Deduction = Provident Fund Deduction (which is 10% of the basic salary) + Other deduction Net salary = Basic salary + Total Allowance – Total Deduction Few values are missing in the table. A candidate is expected to calculate the missing value, if it is required to answer the given question, on the basis of the given data and information. Basic salary of S is what percent more than the basic salary of R?  
(a) 1(1/12)%  
(b) 3(4/13)%  
(c) 5(1/12)%  
(d) 7(9/13)%  
(e) 4(3/8)%

Q.138) 
Find the ratio of the average of the female in the month of June and July by Driver A to the average of the males in the same month by Driver B.  
(a) 55: 42  
(b) 42: 55  
(c) 11: 17  
(d) 17: 11  
(e) 29: 27

Q.139) 
Driver A rejects 20% of the total passengers who booked for the cab in the month of May and Driver B rejects 10% of the passengers who booked for the cab for the same month. Find how much percent Driver A picks the passengers less than that of Driver B in the same month.  
(a) 25%  
(b) 50%  
(c) 40%  
(d) 20%  
(e) 33.33%

Q.140) 
Find the ratio of number of female passengers who booked for Driver A in the month of July and August to the number of male passengers who booked for Driver B in the month of May and September.  
(a) 2: 3  
(b) 1: 4  
(c) 3: 7  
(d) 5: 6  
(e) 2: 5


Q.141) 
From which of the below given words maximum words can be formed by replacing the vowel with other vowels without changing the position of any letter?  
(a) SICK  
(b) LIST  
(c) TICK  
(d) TEST  
(e) FARM  

Q.142) 
In the word “REVOLUTION”, how many pairs of letters has as many vowels between them as in the English Alphabet from left to right?  
(a) two  
(b) three  
(c) four  
(d) more than four  
(e) None of the above  

Q.143) In which of the following pairs, at least one of the words cannot be formed into any other word?  
(a) Sink, tile  
(b) deaf, bask  
(c) face, dust  
(d) clay, veil  
(e) bean, arty  

Q.144) W ≤ A ≤ S ≤ P= T, Z> T> Y> E, J= H ≥ K ≥ P 
(a) J< S  
(b) J> S  
(c) J ≥ S  
(d) J ≤ S  
(e) J= S or the relationship can’t be determined  

Q.145) 
Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V are from seven different countries India, Brazil, China, USA, UAE, UK, and Russia not necessarily in the same order. Each one of them works in the same company but on different designation i.e., Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chairman, Manager, Deputy Manager (DM), Assistant Manager (AM), Assistant and Clerk. These ranks are given in descending order (ex. CEO is the senior and Clerk is the junior). P is senior to V but he is neither CEO nor Manager. U is senior to R who is not from UAE. Two designations are between Q and the one who is from Brazil. P is from China and immediate senior to the one who is from UAE. Q is a junior to the AM and he is from Russia. More than four people are senior to S. The number of people who are senior to the one who is from Brazil is the same as the number of people junior to V. T is from the USA and is junior to one who is from India. What is the designation of V?  
(a) COO  
(b) Manager  
(c) DM  
(d) Assistant  
(e) AM  

Q.146) 
Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V are from seven different countries India, Brazil, China, USA, UAE, UK, and Russia not necessarily in the same order. Each one of them works in the same company but on different designation i.e., Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chairman, Manager, Deputy Manager (DM), Assistant Manager (AM), Assistant and Clerk. These ranks are given in descending order (ex. CEO is the senior and Clerk is the junior). P is senior to V but he is neither CEO nor Manager. U is senior to R who is not from UAE. Two designations are between Q and the one who is from Brazil. P is from China and immediate senior to the one who is from UAE. Q is a junior to the AM and he is from Russia. More than four people are senior to S. The number of people who are senior to the one who is from Brazil is the same as the number of people junior to V. T is from the USA and is junior to one who is from India. How many persons are senior to T?  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) 4  
(e) None  

Q.147) 
Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V are from seven different countries India, Brazil, China, USA, UAE, UK, and Russia not necessarily in the same order. Each one of them works in the same company but on different designation i.e., Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chairman, Manager, Deputy Manager (DM), Assistant Manager (AM), Assistant and Clerk. These ranks are given in descending order (ex. CEO is the senior and Clerk is the junior). P is senior to V but he is neither CEO nor Manager. U is senior to R who is not from UAE. Two designations are between Q and the one who is from Brazil. P is from China and immediate senior to the one who is from UAE. Q is a junior to the AM and he is from Russia. More than four people are senior to S. The number of people who are senior to the one who is from Brazil is the same as the number of people junior to V. T is from the USA and is junior to one who is from India. Who among the following is from UAE?  
(a) P  
(b) R  
(c) S  
(d) V  
(e) U  

Q.148) 
Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V are from seven different countries India, Brazil, China, USA, UAE, UK, and Russia not necessarily in the same order. Each one of them works in the same company but on different designation i.e., Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chairman, Manager, Deputy Manager (DM), Assistant Manager (AM), Assistant and Clerk. These ranks are given in descending order (ex. CEO is the senior and Clerk is the junior). P is senior to V but he is neither CEO nor Manager. U is senior to R who is not from UAE. Two designations are between Q and the one who is from Brazil. P is from China and immediate senior to the one who is from UAE. Q is a junior to the AM and he is from Russia. More than four people are senior to S. The number of people who are senior to the one who is from Brazil is the same as the number of people junior to V. T is from the USA and is junior to one who is from India. of the following is the incorrect pair?  
(a) P- China  
(b) Assistant- S  
(c) T- Chairman  
(d) R- Brazil  
(e) CEO- India  

Q.149) 
Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V are from seven different countries India, Brazil, China, USA, UAE, UK, and Russia not necessarily in the same order. Each one of them works in the same company but on different designation i.e., Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chairman, Manager, Deputy Manager (DM), Assistant Manager (AM), Assistant and Clerk. These ranks are given in descending order (ex. CEO is the senior and Clerk is the junior). P is senior to V but he is neither CEO nor Manager. U is senior to R who is not from UAE. Two designations are between Q and the one who is from Brazil. P is from China and immediate senior to the one who is from UAE. Q is a junior to the AM and he is from Russia. More than four people are senior to S. The number of people who are senior to the one who is from Brazil is the same as the number of people junior to V. T is from the USA and is junior to one who is from India.How many designations are there between U and S?  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) 4  
(e) 5  

Q.150) 
Seven people P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V are from seven different countries India, Brazil, China, USA, UAE, UK, and Russia not necessarily in the same order. Each one of them works in the same company but on different designation i.e., Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chairman, Manager, Deputy Manager (DM), Assistant Manager (AM), Assistant and Clerk. These ranks are given in descending order (ex. CEO is the senior and Clerk is the junior). P is senior to V but he is neither CEO nor Manager. U is senior to R who is not from UAE. Two designations are between Q and the one who is from Brazil. P is from China and immediate senior to the one who is from UAE. Q is a junior to the AM and he is from Russia. More than four people are senior to S. The number of people who are senior to the one who is from Brazil is the same as the number of people junior to V. T is from the USA and is junior to one who is from India. In a family, T is the mother of J. J is the husband of C. C is the mother of K. K is married to L. Y is the mother of L. Y is married to S. R is married to P. K is the brother of P. O is the daughter of K.How is O related to R?  
(a) Niece  
(b) Nephew  
(c) Son  
(d) Can’t be determined  
(e) Daughter  

Q.151) 
Passage: The sense that justice requires punishment for wrongs runs deep and is not the same as a mere thirst for revenge or a desire to get even. On the contrary, punishment plays an important role in any healthy moral ecosystem. Statements: (A) Healthy moral ecosystem is desirable. (B) Forgiving is a bad practice. (C) Punishment at times is to be given to the wrong people. Which of the above three statements is an assumption implicit in the passage?  
(a) Only A  
(b) Both A and B  
(c) Only B  
(d) Both A and C  
(e) Both B and C  

Q.152) 
Statement: A biofuel is produced through contemporary processes from biomass rather than conventional fossil fuels. They are renewable energy resources and can play an important role in minimizing CO2 emissions. Crop residues could be turned to biofuel but our farmers require proper incentives and handholding.Which of the following can be logically inferred from the statement above?  
(a) Other countries are generating Bio fuels which are Eco-friendly.  
(b) This is a good example of re-cycling where waste can be converted into something productive.  
(c) Bio fuels have a high calorific value in comparison to the conventional fossil fuels.  
(d) Government has not done much for the farmers in the past.  
(e) None of these.  

Q.153) 
Statement: Urban India generates 62 million tonnes of waste annually, and it has been predicted that this will reach 165 million tonnes in 2030. Courses of Action: I) Classification of the garbage into recyclable and non-recyclable material must be implemented at every level in the country. II) Regular waste audits should be conducted across the country so that smarter purchasing decisions are made. (a) Only I follows  
(b) Only II follows  
(c) Either I or II follows  
(d) Neither I nor II follows  
(e) Both I and II follow  

Q.154) 
Statement: The management of XYZ Ltd has been at the receiving end of constant complaints from its employees about the HR department. The management is concerned that poor HR management will likely spread to impact all levels of the company causing issues such as employee conflict, poor team building, personality conflicts among many others. Which of the following statements is/are a viable course of action to tackle the problem? I) Replacing the HR personnel with a HR management software. II) Develop an effective training program for HR which includes guidance on the company’s interdepartmental communications improvement.  
(a) Only I follows  
(b) Only II follows  
(c) Both I and II follow  
(d) Neither I nor II follows  
(e) Either I or II follows  

Q.155) 
There are four floors in a given hall such that floor 2 is above floor 1 and floor 3 is above floor 2 and so on. There are three flats in each floor such that flat 3 is in the east of Flat 2 and Flat 2 is in the east of Flat 1. In each flat, a certain number of persons live and the same number of persons do not live in two flats at the same time. There are six persons on an even number of flat and even number of floor. The number of persons living in flat 3 of floor 2 is a multiple of 4 but less than 10. There are four persons on either flat 1 or flat 2 of floor 4. The number of persons living in flat 1 of floor 2 is a multiple of 6 but less than 18. There are 10 people living in flat 3 on floor 1. The total number of persons living on floor 2 is 26. There are 11 persons in an even-numbered floor of flat 1. The total number of persons on floor 4 is 29. The sum of the number of persons on flat 3 comprising all the floor is 37. One of the odd-numbered flats of floor 3 contains 7 persons. The number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1 is the difference in the total number of persons available on flat 3 on floor 2 and flat 3 of floor 3. The number of people living on flat 2 of floor 3 is a square of the number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1. The total number of persons on flat 2 comprising all floor is 32. How many persons are in flat 3 in 2nd floor?  
(a) 5  
(b) 8  
(c) 10  
(d) Data inadequate  
(e) None of these  

Q.156) 
There are four floors in a given hall such that floor 2 is above floor 1 and floor 3 is above floor 2 and so on. There are three flats in each floor such that flat 3 is in the east of Flat 2 and Flat 2 is in the east of Flat 1. In each flat, a certain number of persons live and the same number of persons do not live in two flats at the same time. There are six persons on an even number of flat and even number of floor. The number of persons living in flat 3 of floor 2 is a multiple of 4 but less than 10. There are four persons on either flat 1 or flat 2 of floor 4. The number of persons living in flat 1 of floor 2 is a multiple of 6 but less than 18. There are 10 people living in flat 3 on floor 1. The total number of persons living on floor 2 is 26. There are 11 persons in an even-numbered floor of flat 1. The total number of persons on floor 4 is 29. The sum of the number of persons on flat 3 comprising all the floor is 37. One of the odd-numbered flats of floor 3 contains 7 persons. The number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1 is the difference in the total number of persons available on flat 3 on floor 2 and flat 3 of floor 3. The number of people living on flat 2 of floor 3 is a square of the number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1. The total number of persons on flat 2 comprising all floor is 32. How many total persons are there in flat 1 in all floor?  
(a) 32  
(b) 29  
(c) 33  
(d) Data inadequate  
(e) None of these  

Q.157) 
There are four floors in a given hall such that floor 2 is above floor 1 and floor 3 is above floor 2 and so on. There are three flats in each floor such that flat 3 is in the east of Flat 2 and Flat 2 is in the east of Flat 1. In each flat, a certain number of persons live and the same number of persons do not live in two flats at the same time. There are six persons on an even number of flat and even number of floor. The number of persons living in flat 3 of floor 2 is a multiple of 4 but less than 10. There are four persons on either flat 1 or flat 2 of floor 4. The number of persons living in flat 1 of floor 2 is a multiple of 6 but less than 18. There are 10 people living in flat 3 on floor 1. The total number of persons living on floor 2 is 26. There are 11 persons in an even-numbered floor of flat 1. The total number of persons on floor 4 is 29. The sum of the number of persons on flat 3 comprising all the floor is 37. One of the odd-numbered flats of floor 3 contains 7 persons. The number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1 is the difference in the total number of persons available on flat 3 on floor 2 and flat 3 of floor 3. The number of people living on flat 2 of floor 3 is a square of the number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1. The total number of persons on flat 2 comprising all floor is 32. 12 persons are on which floor?  
(a) floor 1  
(b) floor 2  
(c) floor 3  
(d) floor 4  
(e) Data inadequate  

Q.158) 
There are four floors in a given hall such that floor 2 is above floor 1 and floor 3 is above floor 2 and so on. There are three flats in each floor such that flat 3 is in the east of Flat 2 and Flat 2 is in the east of Flat 1. In each flat, a certain number of persons live and the same number of persons do not live in two flats at the same time. There are six persons on an even number of flat and even number of floor. The number of persons living in flat 3 of floor 2 is a multiple of 4 but less than 10. There are four persons on either flat 1 or flat 2 of floor 4. The number of persons living in flat 1 of floor 2 is a multiple of 6 but less than 18. There are 10 people living in flat 3 on floor 1. The total number of persons living on floor 2 is 26. There are 11 persons in an even-numbered floor of flat 1. The total number of persons on floor 4 is 29. The sum of the number of persons on flat 3 comprising all the floor is 37. One of the odd-numbered flats of floor 3 contains 7 persons. The number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1 is the difference in the total number of persons available on flat 3 on floor 2 and flat 3 of floor 3. The number of people living on flat 2 of floor 3 is a square of the number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1. The total number of persons on flat 2 comprising all floor is 32. Four of the following five are alike in a certain way, based on their position. Which of the following does not belong to that group?  
(a) 11  
(b) 12  
(c) 8  
(d) 5  
(e) 14  

Q.159) 
There are four floors in a given hall such that floor 2 is above floor 1 and floor 3 is above floor 2 and so on. There are three flats in each floor such that flat 3 is in the east of Flat 2 and Flat 2 is in the east of Flat 1. In each flat, a certain number of persons live and the same number of persons do not live in two flats at the same time. There are six persons on an even number of flat and even number of floor. The number of persons living in flat 3 of floor 2 is a multiple of 4 but less than 10. There are four persons on either flat 1 or flat 2 of floor 4. The number of persons living in flat 1 of floor 2 is a multiple of 6 but less than 18. There are 10 people living in flat 3 on floor 1. The total number of persons living on floor 2 is 26. There are 11 persons in an even-numbered floor of flat 1. The total number of persons on floor 4 is 29. The sum of the number of persons on flat 3 comprising all the floor is 37. One of the odd-numbered flats of floor 3 contains 7 persons. The number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1 is the difference in the total number of persons available on flat 3 on floor 2 and flat 3 of floor 3. The number of people living on flat 2 of floor 3 is a square of the number of persons available on flat 1 of floor 1. The total number of persons on flat 2 comprising all floor is 32. Choose the correct option:  
(a) 7 persons are in flat 2’s row 2.  
(b) Total 20 persons are in row 3.  
(c) Difference between total no. of persons between flat 1 and flat 3 is 4.  
(d) 14 persons are in Row 2’s flat 3.  
(e) None of these  

Q.160) 
Statements: The COVID-19 pandemic is reaching a peak and the economy of the world is suffering a lot because of it. Assumptions: I) Some pandemics are capable of destroying the world’s economy. II) The economy of the world can never be affected no matter how big a threat is.  
(a) Only I is implicit  
(b) Only II is implicit  
(c) Either I or II is implicit  
(d) None  
(e) Both are implicit  

Q.161) 
Statement: The banking system in India has four tiers:(a) scheduled commercial banks,(b) regional rural banks,(c) cooperative banks,(d) payment banks and small finance banks. Conclusions: I) The scheduled commercial banks are the most significant category in India’s banking system. II) India is planning to expand its banking network.  
(a) Only I follows  
(b) Only II follows  
(c) Both I and II follow  
(d) Neither I nor II follows  
(e) Either I or II follows  

Q.162) 
Ten Managers namely Raman, Ankit, Raja, Aman, Akshay, Ajay, Priyank, Rahul, Shubham and Tarun from an MNC have meeting on five different days starting from Monday to Friday of the same week but not necessarily in the same order. Managers have meeting at two different time slots 08:45 AM and 12:45 PM. Shubham has a meeting on Tuesday at 08:45 AM. The number of people who have meeting between Priyank and Aman is the same as the number of people who have the meeting between Raja and Rahul. Ankit has the meeting on the day immediately before Shubham. Shubham does not have meeting on any of the days before Priyank. There is one manager who has meeting at 08:45 AM immediately before Tarun. Rahul does not have meeting at 12:45 PM. Aman does not have meeting on any day after Akshay. Only three people have meeting between Priyank and Akshay. Neither Priyank nor Akshay has any meeting on Friday. Only 2 people have meeting between Ajay and Tarun. Ajay does not have any meeting on any of the day after Rahul. Which of the following is the group of people whose meeting slot is 8:45 AM?  
(a) Priyank, Shubham, Akshay, Ajay, Rahul  
(b) Priyank, Shubham, Raman, Ajay, Rahul  
(c) Priyank, Shubham, Akshay, Ajay, Tarun  
(d) Either A or B  
(e) None of these  

Q.163) 
Ten Managers namely Raman, Ankit, Raja, Aman, Akshay, Ajay, Priyank, Rahul, Shubham and Tarun from an MNC have meeting on five different days starting from Monday to Friday of the same week but not necessarily in the same order. Managers have meeting at two different time slots 08:45 AM and 12:45 PM. Shubham has a meeting on Tuesday at 08:45 AM. The number of people who have meeting between Priyank and Aman is the same as the number of people who have the meeting between Raja and Rahul. Ankit has the meeting on the day immediately before Shubham. Shubham does not have meeting on any of the days before Priyank. There is one manager who has meeting at 08:45 AM immediately before Tarun. Rahul does not have meeting at 12:45 PM. Aman does not have meeting on any day after Akshay. Only three people have meeting between Priyank and Akshay. Neither Priyank nor Akshay has any meeting on Friday. Only 2 people have meeting between Ajay and Tarun. Ajay does not have any meeting on any of the day after Rahul. What is time and day for meeting of Raman?  
(a) Thursday – 8: 45 AM  
(b) Thursday – 12: 45 PM  
(c) Friday – 8: 45 AM  
(d) Friday – 12: 45 PM  
(e) None of these  

Q.164) 
Ten Managers namely Raman, Ankit, Raja, Aman, Akshay, Ajay, Priyank, Rahul, Shubham and Tarun from an MNC have meeting on five different days starting from Monday to Friday of the same week but not necessarily in the same order. Managers have meeting at two different time slots 08:45 AM and 12:45 PM. Shubham has a meeting on Tuesday at 08:45 AM. The number of people who have meeting between Priyank and Aman is the same as the number of people who have the meeting between Raja and Rahul. Ankit has the meeting on the day immediately before Shubham. Shubham does not have meeting on any of the days before Priyank. There is one manager who has meeting at 08:45 AM immediately before Tarun. Rahul does not have meeting at 12:45 PM. Aman does not have meeting on any day after Akshay. Only three people have meeting between Priyank and Akshay. Neither Priyank nor Akshay has any meeting on Friday. Only 2 people have meeting between Ajay and Tarun. Ajay does not have any meeting on any of the day after Rahul. How many people have meeting between Raman and Shubham?  
(a) 1  
(b) 2  
(c) 3  
(d) Can’t be determined  
(e) None of these  

Q.165) 
Ten Managers namely Raman, Ankit, Raja, Aman, Akshay, Ajay, Priyank, Rahul, Shubham and Tarun from an MNC have meeting on five different days starting from Monday to Friday of the same week but not necessarily in the same order. Managers have meeting at two different time slots 08:45 AM and 12:45 PM. Shubham has a meeting on Tuesday at 08:45 AM. The number of people who have meeting between Priyank and Aman is the same as the number of people who have the meeting between Raja and Rahul. Ankit has the meeting on the day immediately before Shubham. Shubham does not have meeting on any of the days before Priyank. There is one manager who has meeting at 08:45 AM immediately before Tarun. Rahul does not have meeting at 12:45 PM. Aman does not have meeting on any day after Akshay. Only three people have meeting between Priyank and Akshay. Neither Priyank nor Akshay has any meeting on Friday. Only 2 people have meeting between Ajay and Tarun. Ajay does not have any meeting on any of the day after Rahul. Whose meeting is on Friday?  
(a) Rahul and Tarun  
(b) Raman and Ajay  
(c) Rahul and Raman  
(d) Either 2 or 3  
(e) None of these  

Q.166) 
Ten Managers namely Raman, Ankit, Raja, Aman, Akshay, Ajay, Priyank, Rahul, Shubham and Tarun from an MNC have meeting on five different days starting from Monday to Friday of the same week but not necessarily in the same order. Managers have meeting at two different time slots 08:45 AM and 12:45 PM. Shubham has a meeting on Tuesday at 08:45 AM. The number of people who have meeting between Priyank and Aman is the same as the number of people who have the meeting between Raja and Rahul. Ankit has the meeting on the day immediately before Shubham. Shubham does not have meeting on any of the days before Priyank. There is one manager who has meeting at 08:45 AM immediately before Tarun. Rahul does not have meeting at 12:45 PM. Aman does not have meeting on any day after Akshay. Only three people have meeting between Priyank and Akshay. Neither Priyank nor Akshay has any meeting on Friday. Only 2 people have meeting between Ajay and Tarun. Ajay does not have any meeting on any of the day after Rahul. Which of the following statement is definitely false?  
(a) Shubham has meeting on Tuesday  
(b) Aman has meeting on Tuesday  
(c) Rahul has meeting on Friday  
(d) Ajay has meeting on Monday  
(e) All are true  

Q.167) 
Among five friends P, Q, R, S and T each studying in a different standard, viz 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 8th. In which standard does R study? I) Q studies in a standard which is an odd number. R is Q’s senior but does not study in 8th standard. II) Only three students are senior to P. Q is senior to P but junior to R. III) S is not junior to T.  
(a) Inadequate data  
(b) Only II  
(c) Only I and II  
(d) Only I and III  
(e) All I, II and III  

Q.168) 
Which word would be coded as CHAPTER? I) In the code language, ‘Chapter is complete’ is written as ‘DIBQUFS JT DPNMFUF’ II) In the same language, ‘This chapter is very easy’ is written as ‘UIJT DIBQUFS JT WFSZ FBTZ’ III) In the same language, ‘Manish is intelligent’ is written as ‘NBOJTI JT JOUFMMJHFOU’ 
(a) Only I and II are sufficient  
(b) Only I and III are sufficient  
(c) All the statements are needed to answer the question  
(d) Only II and III are sufficient  
(e) Question cannot be answered even with the information in all the statements  

Q.169) 
Among A, B, C, D and E, who is in the middle while standing in a row? Statements: I) C, who is third to the left of D, is at the immediate right of A, and second to the left of E. II) C is second to the left of E, who is not at any of the ends and who is third to the right of A.  
(a) I alone is sufficient while II alone is not sufficient  
(b) II alone is sufficient while I alone is not sufficient  
(c) Either I or II is sufficient.  
(d) Neither I nor II is sufficient  
(e) Both I and II are required  

Q.170) 
Eight friends – A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H – are seated in a row, but not necessarily in the same order. Some of them are facing north and the others are facing south. Each of the friends likes a different colour among white, green, blue, red, yellow, black, pink and purple. I. E sits four places away from the person who likes pink colour. The person who likes pink faces south. II. D sits two places away from the person who likes pink. III. More than two persons sit between D and E. D and E face the same direction. IV. One of the immediate neighbours of the person who likes pink likes black. Either A or C likes black. V. B sits second to the right of the person who likes black but does not sit adjacent to D. Only two persons sit between B and G. VI. The person who likes yellow sits second to the left of B. VII. The person who likes green sits to the immediate right of G and faces in the opposite direction to that of the person who likes blue. VIII. H sits to the immediate left of the person who likes blue. Only one person sits between F and the person who likes blue. IX. A sits to the immediate right of the person who likes purple. The person who likes red sits second to the left of H.
Who among the following sits at an extreme end of the row?  
(a) The person who likes yellow  
(b) The person who likes blue  
(c) The person who likes red  
(d) The person who likes purple  
(e) The person who likes black  

Q.171) 
Eight friends – A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H – are seated in a row, but not necessarily in the same order. Some of them are facing north and the others are facing south. Each of the friends likes a different colour among white, green, blue, red, yellow, black, pink and purple. I. E sits four places away from the person who likes pink colour. The person who likes pink faces south. II. D sits two places away from the person who likes pink. III. More than two persons sit between D and E. D and E face the same direction. IV. One of the immediate neighbours of the person who likes pink likes black. Either A or C likes black. V. B sits second to the right of the person who likes black but does not sit adjacent to D. Only two persons sit between B and G. VI. The person who likes yellow sits second to the left of B. VII. The person who likes green sits to the immediate right of G and faces in the opposite direction to that of the person who likes blue. VIII. H sits to the immediate left of the person who likes blue. Only one person sits between F and the person who likes blue. IX. A sits to the immediate right of the person who likes purple. The person who likes red sits second to the left of H. Four among the following five are alike in a certain way and hence form a group. Find the one which does not belong to that group.  
(a) B  
(b) F  
(c) A  
(d) G  
(e) D  

Q.172) 
Eight friends – A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H – are seated in a row, but not necessarily in the same order. Some of them are facing north and the others are facing south. Each of the friends likes a different colour among white, green, blue, red, yellow, black, pink and purple. I. E sits four places away from the person who likes pink colour. The person who likes pink faces south. II. D sits two places away from the person who likes pink. III. More than two persons sit between D and E. D and E face the same direction. IV. One of the immediate neighbours of the person who likes pink likes black. Either A or C likes black. V. B sits second to the right of the person who likes black but does not sit adjacent to D. Only two persons sit between B and G. VI. The person who likes yellow sits second to the left of B. VII. The person who likes green sits to the immediate right of G and faces in the opposite direction to that of the person who likes blue. VIII. H sits to the immediate left of the person who likes blue. Only one person sits between F and the person who likes blue. IX. A sits to the immediate right of the person who likes purple. The person who likes red sits second to the left of H. Which of the following is true about F?  
(a) F faces north direction  
(b) F sits third to the right of A  
(c) F and H face the same direction.  
(d) F likes purple  
(e) F is the immediate neighbour of E  

Q.173) 
Eight friends – A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H – are seated in a row, but not necessarily in the same order. Some of them are facing north and the others are facing south. Each of the friends likes a different colour among white, green, blue, red, yellow, black, pink and purple. I. E sits four places away from the person who likes pink colour. The person who likes pink faces south. II. D sits two places away from the person who likes pink. III. More than two persons sit between D and E. D and E face the same direction. IV. One of the immediate neighbours of the person who likes pink likes black. Either A or C likes black. V. B sits second to the right of the person who likes black but does not sit adjacent to D. Only two persons sit between B and G. VI. The person who likes yellow sits second to the left of B. VII. The person who likes green sits to the immediate right of G and faces in the opposite direction to that of the person who likes blue. VIII. H sits to the immediate left of the person who likes blue. Only one person sits between F and the person who likes blue. IX. A sits to the immediate right of the person who likes purple. The person who likes red sits second to the left of H. What is the position of H with respect to the person who likes purple?  
(a) Fourth to the left  
(b) Third to the left  
(c) Second to the right  
(d) Third to the right  
(e) Second to the left  

Q.174) 
Eight friends – A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H – are seated in a row, but not necessarily in the same order. Some of them are facing north and the others are facing south. Each of the friends likes a different colour among white, green, blue, red, yellow, black, pink and purple. I. E sits four places away from the person who likes pink colour. The person who likes pink faces south. II. D sits two places away from the person who likes pink. III. More than two persons sit between D and E. D and E face the same direction. IV. One of the immediate neighbours of the person who likes pink likes black. Either A or C likes black. V. B sits second to the right of the person who likes black but does not sit adjacent to D. Only two persons sit between B and G. VI. The person who likes yellow sits second to the left of B. VII. The person who likes green sits to the immediate right of G and faces in the opposite direction to that of the person who likes blue. VIII. H sits to the immediate left of the person who likes blue. Only one person sits between F and the person who likes blue. IX. A sits to the immediate right of the person who likes purple. The person who likes red sits second to the left of H. Find the odd one out. 
(a) Red-Blue  
(b) White-Green  
(c) Pink-Black  
(d) Green-Pink  
(e) Black-Red  

Q.175) 
Statements: L ≥ A ≥ C, K= Y ≤ C, H> D ≤ K, A> E< Y Conclusions: I) D< A II) A= D III) L> Y  
(a) All the conclusions follow  
(b) Either conclusion I or II follows  
(c) Only conclusion III follows  
(d) Only conclusion II and III follow  
(e) None of the conclusions follows  

Q.176) 
Statements: M> H= A, X ≥ G< H, Y< M< P, G> O> K Conclusions: I) P> X II) G< P III) Y< H  
(a) All the conclusions follow  
(b) Either conclusion I or II follows  
(c) Only conclusion I and III follow  
(d) Only conclusion II follows  
(e) None of the conclusions follows  

Q.177) 
Conditions: I) If the right most element in the group is an odd digit and the left most element is an even digit, then reverse the order of the code for the group. II) If the right most element is a symbol and the left most is an even digit, then the codes of these two get interchanged. III) If both the right most and the left most elements are symbols, then the code for both will be Z. IV) If the right most element in the group is an even digit and the left most element is an odd digit, then the codes for the first two elements get interchanged between them and the codes for the last two elements get interchanged between them. V) If the right most element is an odd digit and the left most element is a symbol, then the code for both will be Y. 5@\*8172  
(a) EFLAHDG  
(b) FELAHDG  
(c) FELAHGD  
(d) EFLAHGD  
(e) None of the above  

Q.178) 
Conditions: I) If the right most element in the group is an odd digit and the left most element is an even digit, then reverse the order of the code for the group. II) If the right most element is a symbol and the left most is an even digit, then the codes of these two get interchanged. III) If both the right most and the left most elements are symbols, then the code for both will be Z. IV) If the right most element in the group is an even digit and the left most element is an odd digit, then the codes for the first two elements get interchanged between them and the codes for the last two elements get interchanged between them. V) If the right most element is an odd digit and the left most element is a symbol, then the code for both will be Y. 40!371&  
(a) VHDJMTB  
(b) BTMJDHV  
(c) TBMJDVH  
(d) VTMJDHB  
(e) ZTMJDHZ  

Q.179) 
Conditions: I) If the right most element in the group is an odd digit and the left most element is an even digit, then reverse the order of the code for the group. II) If the right most element is a symbol and the left most is an even digit, then the codes of these two get interchanged. III) If both the right most and the left most elements are symbols, then the code for both will be Z. IV) If the right most element in the group is an even digit and the left most element is an odd digit, then the codes for the first two elements get interchanged between them and the codes for the last two elements get interchanged between them. V) If the right most element is an odd digit and the left most element is a symbol, then the code for both will be Y. 857&219  
(a) AFDBGHC  
(b) FADBGCH  
(c) CHGBDFA  
(d) CFDBGHA  
(e) YFDBGHY  

Q.180) 
In a certain code language, ‘board neck spiritual truck’ is written as ‘ga po ni fu’ ‘spiritual bloom if preach’ is written as ‘dx ga bd pk’ ‘truck for neck preach’ is written as ‘ni sr fu dx’ ‘board bloom if bird’ is written as ‘bd po pk ke’ What is the code for ‘bloom’ as per the given code language?  
(a) dx  
(b) ga  
(c) either ‘bd’ or ‘pk’  
(d) either ‘ni’ or ‘po’  
(e) po  

Q.181) 
Statements: Some Lipsticks are Gloss. Some Gloss are not Lip Balms. All Lip Balms are Lip Pencil. Conclusions: I. Some Lip Pencils being Gloss is a possibility. II. All Lip Balms being Lipstick is a possibility. III. Some Lip Pencil being Lip Balm is a possibility. (a) Only Conclusion I follows  
(b) Both Conclusion I and II follows  
(c) Only Conclusion III follows  
(d) Both Conclusion I and III follows  
(e) None of these  

Q.182) 
Statement: “If you have obtained 75 per cent or more marks in XII Standard examination, your admission to our coaching class for NEET is guaranteed”, a XYZ coaching institute advertisement. Assumptions: I. Bright students do not generally opt for attending coaching classes. II. The coaching class has adequate capacity to accommodate all such students. 
(a) Only assumption I is implicit  
(b) Only assumption II is implicit  
(c) Both assumption I and II is implicit  
(d) Either assumption I or II is implicit  
(e) Neither assumption I nor II is implicit  

Q.183) 
(A) The meteorological department has issued a statement mentioning deficit rainfall during monsoon in many parts of the country. (B) The Government has lowered the revised estimated GDP growth from the level of earlier estimates. 
(a) Statement(A) is the cause and statement(B) is the effect.  
(b) Statement(B) is the cause and statement(A) is the effect.  
(c) Both the statements(A) and(B) are independent causes.  
(d) Both the statements(A) and(B) are effects of independent causes.  
(e) Both the statements(A) and(B) are effects of some common cause.  

Q.184) 
(A) As per the statistics there has been a rise in the number of electric cars in country ‘X’ this year. (B) The oil prices have fallen strongly in country ‘X’ this year and are estimated to stay low for at least two years for now and not decrease further.  
(a) Statement(A) is the cause and statement(B) is the effect.  
(b) Statement(B) is the cause and statement(A) is the effect.  
(c) Both the statements(A) and(B) are independent causes.  
(d) Both the statements(A) and(B) are effects of independent causes.  
(e) Both the statements(A) and(B) are effects of some common cause.  

Q.185) 
Statement: Should the institutes of higher learnings in India like IITs and IIMs be made totally free from government control? Arguments: I. No, government needs to regulate functions of these institutes for national interest. II. Yes, such institutes in the developed countries are run by non-government agencies. III. No, these institutes are not capable to take policy decisions for smooth functioning.  
(a) Only I is strong  
(b) Only III is strong  
(c) I and II are strong  
(d) I and III are strong  
(e) All the three are strong  

Q.186) 
There are eight persons J, K, L, M, R, O, P and N are sitting around a rectangular table in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the Table while four sits in the middle of each of the four sides. The one who sit at the four corners face outside the centre while those who sit in the middle of the sides face inside. P sit second to the left of O. K sits second to the right of J. L sits third to the left of N. L faces inside. R sits third to the left O. L is not the immediate neighbour of J. Who among the following sits second to the right of K? (a) M  
(b) N  
(c) L  
(d) R  
(e) None of these  

Q.187) 
There are eight persons J, K, L, M, R, O, P and N are sitting around a rectangular table in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the Table while four sits in the middle of each of the four sides. The one who sit at the four corners face outside the centre while those who sit in the middle of the sides face inside. P sit second to the left of O. K sits second to the right of J. L sits third to the left of N. L faces inside. R sits third to the left O. L is not the immediate neighbour of J. Four of the following five belongs to a group. Find the one that does not belong to that group. (a) L  
(b) R  
(c) K  
(d) N  
(e) J  

Q.188) 
There are eight persons J, K, L, M, R, O, P and N are sitting around a rectangular table in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the Table while four sits in the middle of each of the four sides. The one who sit at the four corners face outside the centre while those who sit in the middle of the sides face inside. P sit second to the left of O. K sits second to the right of J. L sits third to the left of N. L faces inside. R sits third to the left O. L is not the immediate neighbour of J. Who among the following faces R?  
(a) K  
(b) L  
(c) M  
(d) N  
(e) None of these  

Q.189) 
There are eight persons J, K, L, M, R, O, P and N are sitting around a rectangular table in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the Table while four sits in the middle of each of the four sides. The one who sit at the four corners face outside the centre while those who sit in the middle of the sides face inside. P sit second to the left of O. K sits second to the right of J. L sits third to the left of N. L faces inside. R sits third to the left O. L is not the immediate neighbour of J. Who among the following sits third to the left of the one who sits second to the right of R? (a) O  
(b) P  
(c) N  
(d) L  
(e) None of these  

Q.190) 
There are eight persons J, K, L, M, R, O, P and N are sitting around a rectangular table in such a way that four of them sit at four corners of the Table while four sits in the middle of each of the four sides. The one who sit at the four corners face outside the centre while those who sit in the middle of the sides face inside. P sit second to the left of O. K sits second to the right of J. L sits third to the left of N. L faces inside. R sits third to the left O. L is not the immediate neighbour of J. Who among the following sits exactly opposite to M?  
(a) L  
(b) R  
(c) N  
(d) P  
(e) None of these  

Q.191) 
When a number and number arrangement machine is given an input line of words and numbers, it arranges them following a particular rule. The following is an illustration of input and rearrangement. Input: weight 34 93 and 14 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 Step 1: and weight 34 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 14 Step 2: 34 and weight 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 understood 56 14 be Step 3: concept 34 and weight 93 density 84 to 74 understood 56 14 be 49 Step 4: 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 to 74 understood 14 be 49 density Step 5: to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 understood 14 be 49 density 74 Step 6: 84 to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 14 be 49 density 74 understood Step 7: weight 84 to 56 concept 34 and 14 be 49 density 74 understood 93 Step 7 is the last step of the above arrangement as the intended arrangement is obtained. As per the rules followed in the given steps, find out the appropriate steps for the given output. Input: 36 24 maintain 87 safe distance 60 12 with other 98 cars.In which step of the given arrangement are the elements ‘24 cars 87’ found in the same order?  
(a) Step 6  
(b) Step 5  
(c) Step 3  
(d) Step 2  
(e) Step 1  

Q.192) 
When a number and number arrangement machine is given an input line of words and numbers, it arranges them following a particular rule. The following is an illustration of input and rearrangement. Input: weight 34 93 and 14 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 Step 1: and weight 34 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 14 Step 2: 34 and weight 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 understood 56 14 be Step 3: concept 34 and weight 93 density 84 to 74 understood 56 14 be 49 Step 4: 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 to 74 understood 14 be 49 density Step 5: to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 understood 14 be 49 density 74 Step 6: 84 to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 14 be 49 density 74 understood Step 7: weight 84 to 56 concept 34 and 14 be 49 density 74 understood 93 Step 7 is the last step of the above arrangement as the intended arrangement is obtained. As per the rules followed in the given steps, find out the appropriate steps for the given output. Input: 36 24 maintain 87 safe distance 60 12 with other 98 cars.Which of the following is the second last step of the given arrangement? (a) 98 safe 60 maintain 24 cars 12 distance 36 other 87 with (b) 24 cars 36 maintain 87 safe 60 with other 98 12 distance (c) 60 maintain 24 cars 87 safe with 98 12 distance 36 other (d) maintain 24 cars 87 safe 60 with other 98 12 distance 36 (e) safe 60 maintain 24 cars with 98 12 distance 36 other 87  
Q.193) What is the position of ‘distance’ from the right end of the third last step of the given arrangement?  
(a) Fifth  
(b) Third  
(c) Second  
(d) Fourth  
(e) Sixth  

Q.194) 
When a number and number arrangement machine is given an input line of words and numbers, it arranges them following a particular rule. The following is an illustration of input and rearrangement. Input: weight 34 93 and 14 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 Step 1: and weight 34 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 14 Step 2: 34 and weight 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 understood 56 14 be Step 3: concept 34 and weight 93 density 84 to 74 understood 56 14 be 49 Step 4: 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 to 74 understood 14 be 49 density Step 5: to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 understood 14 be 49 density 74 Step 6: 84 to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 14 be 49 density 74 understood Step 7: weight 84 to 56 concept 34 and 14 be 49 density 74 understood 93 Step 7 is the last step of the above arrangement as the intended arrangement is obtained. As per the rules followed in the given steps, find out the appropriate steps for the given output. Input: 36 24 maintain 87 safe distance 60 12 with other 98 cars.Which element is exactly between ’87’ and ’60’ in the third step of the given arrangement?  
(a) distance  
(b) with  
(c) other  
(d) safe  
(e) cars  

Q.195) 
When a number and number arrangement machine is given an input line of words and numbers, it arranges them following a particular rule. The following is an illustration of input and rearrangement. Input: weight 34 93 and 14 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 Step 1: and weight 34 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 be understood 56 14 Step 2: 34 and weight 93 density 84 concept to 49 74 understood 56 14 be Step 3: concept 34 and weight 93 density 84 to 74 understood 56 14 be 49 Step 4: 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 to 74 understood 14 be 49 density Step 5: to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 84 understood 14 be 49 density 74 Step 6: 84 to 56 concept 34 and weight 93 14 be 49 density 74 understood Step 7: weight 84 to 56 concept 34 and 14 be 49 density 74 understood 93 Step 7 is the last step of the above arrangement as the intended arrangement is obtained. As per the rules followed in the given steps, find out the appropriate steps for the given output. Input: 36 24 maintain 87 safe distance 60 12 with other 98 cars.Which element is sixth to the right of the element which is tenth from the right end of the last step of the given arrangement?  
(a) 36  
(b) other  
(c) distance  
(d) 87  
(e) 12  

Q.196) 
Seven friends namely – Anand, Balaji, Chakor, Darpak, Easharjot, Falak and Girik are living in a building of seven floors, ground floor numbered 1, first floor numbered 2 and so on till the top-most floor which is numbered 7. Each person lives on a single floor. Total number of members in their family including themselves is – one, six, one, two, four, three and two but not necessarily in the same order. Girik’s family has 1 more person than Anand’s family. Chakor does not live on 6th floor. Balaji with his family lives exactly below one of the couples but above the two people who live alone. There is only one floor between the two people who live alone. There are three floors between Chakor and Girik. Chakor lives above Girik. Easharjot lives on 3rd floor with his wife only. There are total 4 persons in Balaji’s family including him. Which one of the following lives on fifth floor?  
(a) Chakor  
(b) Darpak  
(c) Falak  
(d) Girik  
(e) None of these  

Q.197) 
Seven friends namely – Anand, Balaji, Chakor, Darpak, Easharjot, Falak and Girik are living in a building of seven floors, ground floor numbered 1, first floor numbered 2 and so on till the top-most floor which is numbered 7. Each person lives on a single floor. Total number of members in their family including themselves is – one, six, one, two, four, three and two but not necessarily in the same order. Girik’s family has 1 more person than Anand’s family. Chakor does not live on 6th floor. Balaji with his family lives exactly below one of the couples but above the two people who live alone. There is only one floor between the two people who live alone. There are three floors between Chakor and Girik. Chakor lives above Girik. Easharjot lives on 3rd floor with his wife only. There are total 4 persons in Balaji’s family including him. How many members are there in Anand’s family?  
(a) 3  
(b) 2  
(c) 1  
(d) 6  
(e) None of these  

Q.198) 
Seven friends namely – Anand, Balaji, Chakor, Darpak, Easharjot, Falak and Girik are living in a building of seven floors, ground floor numbered 1, first floor numbered 2 and so on till the top-most floor which is numbered 7. Each person lives on a single floor. Total number of members in their family including themselves is – one, six, one, two, four, three and two but not necessarily in the same order. Girik’s family has 1 more person than Anand’s family. Chakor does not live on 6th floor. Balaji with his family lives exactly below one of the couples but above the two people who live alone. There is only one floor between the two people who live alone. There are three floors between Chakor and Girik. Chakor lives above Girik. Easharjot lives on 3rd floor with his wife only. There are total 4 persons in Balaji’s family including him. Whose family consists of total three members?  
(a) Anand  
(b) Chakor  
(c) Easharjot  
(d) Girik  
(e) None of these  

Q.199) 
Seven friends namely – Anand, Balaji, Chakor, Darpak, Easharjot, Falak and Girik are living in a building of seven floors, ground floor numbered 1, first floor numbered 2 and so on till the top-most floor which is numbered 7. Each person lives on a single floor. Total number of members in their family including themselves is – one, six, one, two, four, three and two but not necessarily in the same order. Girik’s family has 1 more person than Anand’s family. Chakor does not live on 6th floor. Balaji with his family lives exactly below one of the couples but above the two people who live alone. There is only one floor between the two people who live alone. There are three floors between Chakor and Girik. Chakor lives above Girik. Easharjot lives on 3rd floor with his wife only. There are total 4 persons in Balaji’s family including him. How many person(s) live(s) between Easharjot and Girik?  
(a) 3  
(b) 2  
(c) 1  
(d) 4  
(e) None of these  

Q.200) 
Seven friends namely – Anand, Balaji, Chakor, Darpak, Easharjot, Falak and Girik are living in a building of seven floors, ground floor numbered 1, first floor numbered 2 and so on till the top-most floor which is numbered 7. Each person lives on a single floor. Total number of members in their family including themselves is – one, six, one, two, four, three and two but not necessarily in the same order. Girik’s family has 1 more person than Anand’s family. Chakor does not live on 6th floor. Balaji with his family lives exactly below one of the couples but above the two people who live alone. There is only one floor between the two people who live alone. There are three floors between Chakor and Girik. Chakor lives above Girik. Easharjot lives on 3rd floor with his wife only. There are total 4 persons in Balaji’s family including him. Which one of the following combinations of ‘floor number-person- family members’ is the correct one? 
(a) 2- Girik- 1  
(b) 3- Easharjot – 5  
(c) 6- Chakor- 4  
(d) 7- Anand- 2  
(e) None of these